Sunny: Hello everyone, I'm Audible, can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny: So, let's, begin with the class. Let's start.
Sunny: Just, just give me a moment, guys, okay? Wait.
Sunny: I hope my screen is visible.
Sunny: Guys, please, can you confirm in the chat?
Sunny: People are saying, like, link is expired, is it? I think link is working, I can see many people have joined the session.
Sunny: Is the link working or not, guys? I think… see, if you have joined, I think link is working, correct?
Sunny: So please, let them know in the chat also, that link is working fine. There is no such issue with the link.
Sunny: I think in the workshop session, you can check out with the link, you can join with that link.
Sunny: Okay, so let's, begin, let's start. I think everything is set now.
Sunny: Don't, join the class, from your mobile phone.
Sunny: Join with your system, okay?
Sunny: Someone is saying why we are starting session 8 to 10?
Sunny: See, why we are starting session in 8-10? Because… so that everyone can join, okay? In every class, basically, I'm keeping a buffer around 5 to 10 minutes.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: who is our… who's saying this thing? Salin the Misrah. Salin Riji, if you are there.
Sunny: So in every session, basically, we are keeping buffer for 5 to 10 minutes, so that everyone can join. Understood?
Sunny: course pace is not slow. We'll cover up that, okay? Just let this thing to us only, will cover up, each and everything, don't worry, okay?
Sunny: Actually, this,
Sunny: code slow and all, everything you will feel until this theoretical session. Once we'll come to the practical, once we'll come to the spectacle, no, you will not find out that, okay? So that we can cover in a little, faster manner.
Sunny: Because most of the code and all everything will be self-explanatory. Got it?
Sunny: Okay, fine. So, let's, begin, let's, start, let's start with the session. So, in the previous class, guys, I was talking about the transformer, and I explained you one part, right? I explained you about the encoder.
Sunny: And, guys, I mentioned a couple of points with respect to the encoder, so if you will check with my previous notes.
Sunny: So, you will find out over there, that I mentioned, couple of points. So, we'll, discuss, we'll, discuss those, points, okay, in the same order. So, first, we'll talk about the positional encoding, then we'll talk about the self-attention.
Sunny: Then we'll come to the layer normalization, okay? And why residual connection? Why neural network? I think these two things I already discussed in the previous class itself, right?
Sunny: And, even I provided you these notes. So, even you can check out with the GitHub repository. There, all the resources and all, everything is updated. Got it? Now, after that, guys, one more thing will come. So, we'll understand the working of the decoder as well. Inside the decoder, guys, we have a couple of more things, couple of more concepts, which we need to understand, like,
Sunny: this cross-attention, okay, mask self-attention, and then we'll see the overall flow, how the data is being flowing from the… how the data is being flowing from the encoder to decoder, and how the model is being trained, okay? So we need to understand that part, we need to understand, all those things. So again, this concert, basically, it will take two to three more classes.
Sunny: And after that, guys, we are going to be completed. Why we are taking this concept in a depth, so that you can understand the working of the LLM model. Means, we cannot cover each and every architecture of the LLM, correct? There are so many LLMs, 100 and thousands of LLM.
Sunny: Okay, so we cannot cover each and every architecture of the LLM, so that we are just understanding the fundamental architecture.
Sunny: And the transformer architecture, actually, it is a fundamental architecture of the… of all the LLM, okay? So we are able to understand all this concept, so that… so you can, go ahead with any sort of LLM research paper, and you can understand their working component. Getting my point? So we are just focusing on the fundamental architecture of the LLM, and
Sunny: We are just looking into the working of this particular component. Getting my point, guys?
Sunny: Okay, so let's begin, let's start. So, first of all, let me write all the points, and then I will open the new sheet, and there, I will discuss the point, okay? So, I can save it, guys, just a second. Let me open the new one.
Sunny: So, 25 April… transformer.
Sunny: and coding.
Sunny: Let me save this notebook.
Sunny: Okay, great, guys. So, I open a new sheet, and there, I will discuss that.
Sunny: In each encoder? No, only the decoder part, okay? Only the decoder part would be there. Got it?
Sunny: Fine, guys. I hope it is visible, so let's begin. So, guys, in the previous class, we understood the working of the encoder, okay? So, we have gone through the entire encoder
Sunny: Process, how the data is being flowed from the… how the data is being flowed, right, from the encoder.
Sunny: And, basically, we have encountered a couple of concepts over there, okay? So, may I know, guys, that encoder working is clear or not? Have you gone through with the session? Have you gone through with the notes again?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: If yes, you can mention inside the chat, okay?
Sunny: Great, guys. So, I think, most of the people have gone through with the notes, and they understood the working, of the encoder part, right? So, we're talking about the encoder, so there were a couple of concepts, let me rewrite those, particular concepts, okay? And then, we'll discuss those concepts.
Sunny: The very first concept is going to be a positional encoding, right? Which we need to understand. If someone is going to be asked you in an interview, right? What is a positional encoding? How does it work, right? So you can explain that. You will be able to explain that. So, we'll understand that part. Positional
Sunny: and coding.
Sunny: The second, thing is going to be, self-attention, okay?
Sunny: Self-attention.
Sunny: So, we'll understand what is the self-attention.
Sunny: Okay? And then we have some extended version of the self-attention. So, the one is called the multi-headed self-attention, right?
Sunny: So, multi-areed self-attention is nothing. So, multiple time, basically, we are applying the self-attention. Simple meaning of the multi-rated self-attention, I'll tell you that, okay? With one single diagram, I can explain you that thing.
Sunny: Now guys, we have a couple of more concepts with respect to the self-attention. Those, those concepts is called the cross-attention.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: The first is called a cross attention, and the second is called a self-mask attention.
Sunny: Okay, mask attention, or self-mask attention. Anything you can say.
Sunny: Now, this particular concept, actually, it comes under the decoder side.
Sunny: It comes on the decoder side. So once I'll go through with the decoder architecture, at that time, I will explain you that, again, with this one single diagram, we can understand it. If you know about the self-attention, easily with the one single diagram, within 10 minutes, you can understand this particular concept also.
Sunny: Now, the next concept, basically, it is called the, layer normalization. So, let me write over here. Again, this is also a very simple concept, we can easily understand, this particular concept, okay? So, layer normalization is one of the
Sunny: concept.
Sunny: Right? So these many topics are remaining.
Sunny: And then, guys, we'll see the end-to-end flow, end-to-end flow.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: We'll see what, guys? We'll see the AND, TO AND flow.
Sunny: Like, how the data is being flowing inside that transformer architecture.
Sunny: And to, and flow.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: End-to-end flow from where? End-to-end flow from encoder.
Sunny: encoder to decoder, okay?
Sunny: And coder to decoder.
Sunny: Now, these many topics are remaining inside the transformer, and after that, guys, we'll complete this particular chapter. We'll complete this particular module.
Sunny: Now, how many classes it will take? So, within 2-3 classes, we are going to complete all this concept. Understood, guys? So, within 2-3 classes, we'll try to cover up all this concept. Now, right after that, guys, we'll come to the fine-tuning, how we can perform the fine-tuning, we'll take the LLM,
Sunny: We'll use the Hugging Face and the different, different other framework over there. We'll use the Hugging Face, Unsloth, okay? So this kind of framework we are going to be used, and we are going to perform the fine-tuning. And even I will show you, from what all API, basically, you can access the different, different LLM, right? So I will create this notebook also for all of you.
Sunny: We are basically… we are going to be read a LLM from the different, different API, so that this will be helpful while we are going to be, this will be helpful, guys, while we are going to be create our projects, okay? So you can directly take the LLM code from there, and you can integrate any LLM inside your project.
Sunny: Understood, guys?
Sunny: Great. Yeah, inside of fine-tuning, I can talk about the RLHF also. It is not a very big deal, okay? Like, very simple code, right? With respect… so I will show you that RLHF code and all, and even you can understand that, okay?
Sunny: So, this is going to be our flow, right? This is going to be our flow. So, once we'll cover up all this theory and all, guys, so we'll increase our pace a little bit. Again, I'm saying, whenever we will move to the coding side.
Sunny: whenever we are going to be moved to the coding side, after leaving this theoretical stuff and all. So we are going to be increase our pace as well. So please, guys, please be good with your Python.
Sunny: And, please practice with the code and all everything.
Sunny: And, you can utilize the previous batch material also. We have already given you the exercise. Understood?
Sunny: all this thing is clear or not, please let me know in the chat, so that I can proceed.
Sunny: Great, perfect. So, let's start, or let's begin. Let me explain the concept of the positional encoding. So, we're talking about the positional encoding, guys. So, first we'll understand about the problem statement, and then, guys, I will come to the explanation of that. So let me write over here.
Sunny: traditional.
Sunny: and coding.
Sunny: Okay. Now, guys, what was the problem statement? Why we are going to be performing this positional encoding?
Sunny: What is the use of it? So guys, whenever we're talking about the, LLM, sorry, whenever we're talking about the transformer, right? So how the data is being flowed inside the transformer? So, let's say, this is what, this is my sentence. I can write any sort of a sentence.
Sunny: let's say, this is going to be my sentence. My sentence is, I…
Sunny: Then the next word is going to be what?
Sunny: Next, what is going to be love?
Sunny: Okay? And the next word is going to be what? The next word is going to be AI, right? So we are passing this particular sentence, we are passing this particular sentence where, inside the…
Sunny: Self-attention layer, okay?
Sunny: All the embedding and all everything will be happen. So first, the tokenization will happen, then the embedding will happen, and finally, we are going to be passed this particular data layer. Finally, we are going to be passed this particular data to the self-attention. Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: I think already we have discussed all this thing. So, let's say we are passing this particular data.
Sunny: to the self-attention layer. Now, guys, the problem with the self-attent… so, the problem is over here. The problem is very, very simple.
Sunny: The problem is, basically, this data, actually, we are passing, you know? This data, whatever data we are passing over here, inside the cell potential, we are passing in parallel.
Sunny: Okay? We are passing this data in parallel. So here, guys, if we want to inject the sequence, right? So if we want to be, like, inject the information about the position.
Sunny: Right? If model wanted to understand the sequence, right, sequence of the data, now how it will be able to understand that? Because if we are passing data in parallel, so this sentence, or this sentence, basically, the sentence could be like this also, right? This sentence and this sentence will play a same role. Let's say if I'm going to be right like this.
Sunny: What I'm going to do, guys, I'm going to be right like this, see? Just focus over here.
Sunny: I'm writing over here.
Sunny: AI.
Sunny: low.
Sunny: Aye.
Sunny: Okay, so we are passing data parallelly. Now, this sentence, and this sentence, basically, it will not make any sort of a difference.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, just to provide a sequence to the data, so just to provide a sequence to the data, what we do? We perform the positional encoding. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So here, what is the problem statement? The problem statement is very, very straightforward.
Sunny: The problem statement, basically.
Sunny: The problem statement.
Sunny: We are passing data, We are passing data in parallel.
Sunny: Okay? We are passing data, the data, whatever data is being passed.
Sunny: The data is being passed parallelly.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: the data is being passed parallelly. Now, here, if we wanted to keep the sequence of the data, right, if we wanted to keep the data in sequence, right? So, for that, guys, what we will do, we'll perform the positional encoding. So, let me write over here what is going to be a solution. So, solution is going to be,
Sunny: what is going to be a solution? The solution, basically, if we wanted to keep the data in sequence, okay.
Sunny: For that, guys, we are going to be perform the positional encoding.
Sunny: I hope, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny: This is Kilia. Okay, so let me give you the exact definition of it. So…
Sunny: If, basically, you are explaining, if you are going to be explaining this thing in an interview, then you can do that. So let me keep it, the definition over here. I just kept one definition over here, see? Can you see this particular definition?
Sunny: Yes or no? Is it visible to all of you? So, positional encoding basically is a technique used to inject information about the position of the token into their embeddings, okay? So that the model can understand the sequence order. So, why it is needed, guys? Let's say transformer process all the token in parallel.
Sunny: So they don't know order by default. Example, I love AI or AI love AI. Without positional encoding, both look same to the model. So this is going to be a, like, the basic, basically definition of the positional encoding, so that you can understand about the concept.
Sunny: So tell me, guys, is this slide clear to all of you?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Yes. This is also a good example. I think in the previous class also, I've given you this kind of example. So, let me keep this example over here. So, Kavita has written in the chat.
Sunny: So, this sentence, dogs bite men, and men bite dogs, right? So, again, guys, my model can interpret the data in this way also, okay? So, to keep the sequence of the data, we add the positional encoding.
Sunny: Now, how we are going to be do that?
Sunny: What is the process of that, right? How we are going to be perform the positional encoding. So, we'll have to be understand that. The basically concept is a little tricky, but yeah, at the end, we'll try to understand that, okay? So, over here, guys, I'm going to be explaining, like, how the
Sunny: positional encoding, so how the positional encoding might work, right? So this positional encoding, basically, let's understand that how we can detect the position, okay? Let's understand first that part. So, let's say, guys, we are going to be password data.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: What could be my data? My data could be two words. So, here I'm going to write two words.
Sunny: Let's say the first word is going to be what? The first word is going to be…
Sunny: River over here, this one.
Sunny: Okay? And the second word is going to be what? Second word, let's say, is going to be bank. Right? So what I have, guys, I have two words, river and the bank. Okay? Let me rewrite this particular thing again.
Sunny: Hmm… okay.
Sunny: So here I can write that.
Sunny: So let's say this is what this offers for.
Sunny: River?
Sunny: And this is what? This is my second board.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, what I'll do, first, I'll perform the embedding of this particular word.
Sunny: So here is what? Here is the embedded vector. So how we will perform this embedding? Can anyone tell me how we are going to perform this particular embedding?
Sunny: May I know in the chat, guys, how we are going to perform this particular embedding of the data? We are going to be use the word-to-back model. Now, tell me, guys, that word-to-back model, this word-to-back model, basically, is it going to be, this work-to-back model, guys, is it going to be a pre-trained model?
Sunny: No, it is not a pre-trained model, just a lookup of the model, okay? Means we just have a model, and that, is going to be convert our data into the embedding. So we are passing, this, we are passing our word into the model, okay?
Sunny: word-to-back model, and already I explained you this particular concept in the previous class. If you're not aware about this concept, you can check out the previous session. So we are passing this particular word to the word-to-back model, and then we are going to be generate the embedding. So let's say this is my embedding one.
Sunny: Right? And this is my embedding tool.
Sunny: Now, guys, just tell me, if we wanted to capture the position of it, if we wanted to capture the position, if we wanted to capture the position, basically.
Sunny: Position of what? Position of this particular ward. Now, how you can do that?
Sunny: How you can do that. What you will do for that.
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: what you will do for that. So, we're talking about, we're talking about the position, right? If you wanted to capture the position. So, here, let's say, what I added over here, let's suppose I've added over here 1, okay?
Sunny: This is what? This is my first position, and this is what? This is my second position. If we are passing our data, okay, if we are going to be apparent this 1 and 2, and at the end of this particular vector, now tell me, guys, are we going to be… so, here, let… tell me, guys, are we going to be sustained the position of the data? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: So, this could be one of the solutions. This could be what? This could be one of the solutions. Let's say I'm going to be write one more word over here. I can write one more word. The word is going to be what? River, bank, flow, right? So, in the previous,
Sunny: class, I've just given the verbal overview about it. Now, we are going to be understanding this particular concept. So, guys, let's say this is my… one of the words. Okay, now, one more word is there. Now, what I will do, guys, so this is my vector. Okay, I will pass this particular data to where.
Sunny: I'll pass this particular data to the one-hot encoded vector. Sorry, I will pass this particular token to the word-to-back model. Okay, and then, if I wanted to keep the position.
Sunny: what I'll do, tell me. So, if I wanted to keep the position of this particular vector, so I will append the 3 over here.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, like this, are we able to sustain? Are we going to be, are we going to be sustaining the sequence of the data?
Sunny: Yes or no? Tell me. So this could be one of the solution.
Sunny: This could be what? This could be one of the solution.
Sunny: But guys, over here, if we are going to be per… if we are going to be following this particular solution, but if we are going to be follow this particular solution, right?
Sunny: So, this will not work for the longer sentences, okay? Now, we're talking about in real-time data, so in the real-time data, we are going to be take, or we are going to be considered any sort of a sentence.
Sunny: Right, so let's say we have our real-time data.
Sunny: Real. Time.
Sunny: data.
Sunny: Now, guys, inside the real-time data, just tell me, guys, the sentence could be how long?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: What if we sequentially do the embedding? Sequentially do the embedding means?
Sunny: But sequentially, we don't pass the data, no?
Sunny: Sequentially, we don't pass the data. What do you mean to say 1, 2, 3? 1, 2, 3 means first position, this embedding actually is having a first position, 2 means embedding is having a second position, and this embedding 3 means this embedding is having a third position. Now, this particular data, where will we be passing this particular data? Tell me.
Sunny: where we'll be passing this particular data? So this particular data, basically, it will be passed to the self-attention layer, right? So let me write over here, this particular data is going to be passed to the
Sunny: So… Attention.
Sunny: This particular data is being passed to the… Self.
Sunny: Attention Layer.
Sunny: Getting my point? So here, what I did, I written 1, 2, 3, and all. Now, over here, guys, if I'm going to be add like this, okay, 1, 2, 3, 4, tell me, we're talking about the real-time data.
Sunny: So inside the real-time data, the sentence, how could be the long, right? What could be the size of the sentence? The sentence could be, like, any… there could be any number of token inside the sentence. Let's say, we are passing a sentence, right? And inside that particular sentence, we have one lakh token.
Sunny: 1 lakh token. Now, tell me, guys, if we are going to be create a last vector, if we are going to be create our last vector, so what number I'm going to be append over here? What number I'm going to be append over here?
Sunny: Tell me. So here, guys, we can… we are going to be upend 1 lakh, okay? We are going to be up and 1 lakh, means whatever word is coming, whatever word is coming.
Sunny: At 1 lakh position, Let's say this is what… this is my one lag word.
Sunny: Let's say for the… for example, I'm just, writing anything over here. Let's say this, 1 lakh word is sunny, okay? So this one lakh word is sunny. Now, tell me, guys, what position I will keep over here, what position I will, keep over here. We are taking a 1 lakh word.
Sunny: So here, I will… I will write 1 lakh, right? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, like this.
Sunny: So this, like this, basically, we are going to be sustain the position, okay? Let me write over here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sunny: Getting my point? And guys, again, there is no such limit, actually. There is no such limit.
Sunny: Okay, we're talking about the one single sentence in a real time, one single sentence in the real time, so this could be up to 1 lakh token, or there is no such limit. This number could be anything.
Sunny: this number could be anything. This number could be anything. So, guys, this simple solution, basically, it's going to be fail. This simple solution, guys, is going to be fail if we are going to be use this particular solution for handling… for performing the positional encoding.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: tell me, so this put… this particular… this particular solution might be failed, right? So, let's say we are… let me write over here. So, what I can do, guys, I can write over here. So, we are going to be take this particular approach.
Sunny: Right? If we are going to be take this particular approach, let's say, what is my approach to perform the positional encoding?
Sunny: Let's say my approach to perform the positional encoding, just write the number, okay, just write the token count. Let's say in my sentence.
Sunny: let's say in my sentence, I have 4 tokens.
Sunny: I have 4 tokens.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: I have 4 tokens. Let's say my token is I… Love?
Sunny: AI?
Sunny: much. Okay, this is what this is my sentence.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, if I wanted to define the position, if I wanted to define the position of this particular sequence, what I will do, I will give first to this one, second to this one, third to this one, fourth to this one. Is it maintaining a sequence, guys? Tell me. It is maintaining a sequence of the data? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: It is maintaining a data, it is maintaining a sequence of the data.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: it is maintaining the sequence of the data. Now, let's say, in one of the sentences.
Sunny: Let's say, is one of the sentences, we are going to be taking another sentence.
Sunny: Now, inside that particular sentence, we have 400 token.
Sunny: 400 token. If I wanted to keep, let's say this is my token, I love AI much…
Sunny: Again, whatever I… whatever I can write over here, it's just an example. Okay? Now here, basically, how many sentences we have? Let's say here the last word is a U.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, if we are going to be keep the position of each and every word.
Sunny: If we are going to be keep the position of each and every word, right?
Sunny: Each and every word, guys, tell me what will be the number of the last word? So, it's going to be a 400.
Sunny: Getting my point? Yes or no? So, guys, there is no such limit inside the sentence. So, we're talking about the real-time sentence, so this could be a limitless, right?
Sunny: This could be a limitless. Limitless means what? This n number, actually, the last number, it could be anything. We can have n number of tokens inside the one single sentence.
Sunny: Okay, so it could be 1 lakh, it could be 10 lakh, whatever, basically, we… it could be. So guys, again, if we are going to be at this particular number, right, if we are going to be at this particular number inside our vector.
Sunny: We are going to be at this particular number inside our vector, right? So this is not going to be a right approach. There is a couple of drawbacks of that, right? So what is the drawback of that, guys?
Sunny: The first drawback, basically, this number is a limitless.
Sunny: Right? Let me write over here, let me write those drawbacks. So first, which approach we are going to be consider? So first, guys, we are going to be consider a simple approach.
Sunny: As of now, we are not, see, as of now, I haven't shown you the real way of implementing this positional encoding. I'll come to that. I'm just going through with a simple approach as of now, so we can think in this way also, just to keep the position of the data.
Sunny: So, guys, the first approach is a simple approach, right? So, this is my approach, basically, which I am going to be keep. But here, guys, we have certain drawback of that. So, let me write over here.
Sunny: Certain drawback of that.
Sunny: So what is the drawback, guys? The drawback, basically, the first drawback.
Sunny: the number could be limitless, okay? So, number of… token.
Sunny: could be… The number of token, could be.
Sunny: limitless inside the sentence. Okay, we don't know how many tokens would be there.
Sunny: The second, basically, the number are the discrete one.
Sunny: The number is what? The number are the discrete one. Discrete one means what? Discrete… discrete means like this. This one, two, three, four, five, okay.
Sunny: 1,000, or 1 lakh, something like this. Now, guys, we are… see, this particular data, further, we are passing to the neural network. This particular vector, basically, this vector, basically, we are going to be passed to the neural network. And neural network don't like… and neural network, basically, don't like
Sunny: the discrete number, okay? So if you are going to be pass a discrete data to the neural network, in that case, in that case, the training could be unstable. Getting my point, guys? The training could be the unstable. So we have a discrete number inside our vector.
Sunny: If we have a discrete number inside our vector.
Sunny: And further, we are passing this particular vector to the neural network, right, so the training might become unstable.
Sunny: So, training… might become… on a stable.
Sunny: might become
Sunny: unstable. Let me write over here, unstable. So this was a simple approach to keep the position, but guys, this is not going to be work, basically, for the longer run.
Sunny: So here, guys, this simple approach to keep the position of the data, like 1, 2, 3, it's not going to be work. Okay, so what is the actual solution of it? The actual solution they have proposed inside the research paper. So let me show you the research paper, basically. Here, what I can do, guys, I can show you the research paper.
Sunny: And, inside the research paper, basically, we can check what was the actual solution. So, can you see this research paper? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny: Tell me, guys, is it visible? This research paper is visible.
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So, over here, inside this research paper, they have given you one paragraph about the positional encoding. So, can we read out this particular paragraph? So, just by reading this particular paragraph, maybe you will not be able to understand much thing.
Sunny: Okay, you will not be able to understand many more things just by reading this particular paragraph. So what they have written over here, they have written, since our model content.
Sunny: No occurrence, reoccurrence, and not convolution. So in order for the, in order for the model to make use of the order of sequence, we must inject some information about the relative and absolute position of the token in the sequence, okay?
Sunny: To this end, we are adding positional encoding to the input embedding.
Sunny: At the bottom of the encoder and decoder stack. Okay.
Sunny: The positional encoding have a same dimension.
Sunny: as the embedding, right? So the two number can be summed, and there are many choices of the positional encoding. Now, over here, guys, they are giving you two formulas. One is this one, and one is this one, right?
Sunny: So, one basically is a sine one, and second is a cosine one. So, using this particular formula only, they are going to create a positional encoding.
Sunny: Now, here, where position, basically, it's a position, and I is what? I is the dimension.
Sunny: This, that each dimension of the position encoding corresponding to the sinusodeus graph, the wavelength from geometric progression from 2 pi to, 10,000, into 2 pi.
Sunny: Now, we choose the relative function, this, this, this, that. Now, tell me, guys, how much you understood using this particular paragraph about the position encoding.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, how much you understood.
Sunny: I think no one is able to understand.
Sunny: No one is able to understand the meaning of the four digital encoding over here, okay?
Sunny: Formula is not clear.
Sunny: formula is not clear, right? So, it is going to be embedding… it is going to be a vector, actually, which we are going to be… add inside our actual vector.
Sunny: It's going to be a vector, which is… we are going to be add inside the embedding vector, okay? I'll tell you how does it work. So, guys, how we are performing this embedding. So, we are going to be perform this particular embedding using the sine and cosine function.
Sunny: Using what? Tell me? Using the sine and cosine function, okay? Now, over here, guys, we're talking about the sine and cosine, right? So, using this particular formula only, we are going to be… we are going to be calculate that. So, I'll calculate in front of you, so that you can understand in a better way.
Sunny: Now, I can take… I can take the screenshot of it, right? And I can keep it inside my, I can keep this thing inside where? Inside my…
Sunny: Blackboard, okay?
Sunny: So this is the formula, guys. Using this particular formula only will have to be drive our positional encoding, our positional encoding vector.
Sunny: So, first of all, guys, let me explain you a couple of more concepts to come up with, like, to, before coming to this particular formula, before explaining you the, the, before explaining the exact positional vector, okay? So, let me, again, let me explain you a couple of more concepts.
Sunny: So, what I'm doing over here, guys, just a second, I'm just going to be right over here.
Sunny: So let's say we have two words.
Sunny: what is going to be my two words? I can write over… I can write, over here.
Sunny: Let's say I'm writing, great, India, okay?
Sunny: So, this is my first one.
Sunny: This is what, this is my first word. And this is what, this is my second word.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, what I'll do, first I'll create a vector.
Sunny: First, I'll create what?
Sunny: First, I'll create a vector of this particular board.
Sunny: So let's say this is what, this is my vector.
Sunny: Now, how we will create this particular vector? Tell me. So, this particular vector, we are going to be create using what?
Sunny: Using the… Word-to-back model, okay?
Sunny: Using the word-to-back model. So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and then 7, right?
Sunny: So I created 7-dimension vector.
Sunny: And this particular vector, basically, I got from where? I got from the word-to-back model.
Sunny: Making sense or not?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about… now we're talking about the positional encoding.
Sunny: Right? So what I'll do, guys, now I will perform the positional encoding.
Sunny: So, positional encoding vector, This position encoding.
Sunny: Or, I can say, this positional encoding vector, actually.
Sunny: It is going to be a same dimension vector.
Sunny: It's going to be a same dimension vector. So here, guys, I will be creating a same dimension of vector.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, right? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. I'm just assuming, like, my model is creating a 7-dimensional vector, right? So here is also the same one.
Sunny: This one. So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Okay, so we are going to create this positional encoding vector, this PE vector, actually, it's going to be a same dimension of vector.
Sunny: It's going to be what, guys? Tell me.
Sunny: It's going to be a same dimension of the vector. No, just an example.
Sunny: Just an example, Naveen, okay? Don't overthink, guys, right? Someone is asking why 7? Anything is specific. Ari, just an example. So, same dimension of…
Sunny: vector.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Now, over here, what we do, guys, tell me, we concatenate this vector, or we, add this vector.
Sunny: So we concatenate this vector, or we add this vector.
Sunny: So, guys, we always, we always going to be…
Sunny: be always going to be add this vector, okay? Value-wise value, we are going to be add this vector, this 2 vector.
Sunny: So whatever final vector actually we get.
Sunny: Whatever final vector we get, let's say this is what this is my final vector, this one.
Sunny: So this is what, this is my final vector.
Sunny: Okay, this is what? This is my final vector. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
Sunny: And this is what? This is my final vector. Now, this particular vector, tell me, guys, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Okay, now this particular vector, basically, it is having a knowledge of the position.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: this vector.
Sunny: having… This vector having a knowledge
Sunny: This vector is having knowledge of.
Sunny: Ojisha.
Sunny: Now, where we are passing this particular vector? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny: Where we are passing this particular vector. Now, this particular vector further will be passed to our self-attention layer.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: This particular vector, further will be passing via.
Sunny: to our self-attention layer, okay? So, let's say this is what, this is my self-attention layer. Now, here one question comes, right? Now, here one question comes.
Sunny: Now, why you are not concatenating this vector, this positional encoding vector, and then this embedding vector? Why you are not going to be concatenating that, okay? In, like, in your mind, this question might come. Let's say this is what, this is my embedding one.
Sunny: I can write over here, this is my embedding 1, and this is my encoding 2. Now, this is my positional encoding 1,
Sunny: And this is mine.
Sunny: Positional encoding, too.
Sunny: Okay. Now, tell me, guys, let's say… I have one vector.
Sunny: I have 5-dimensional vector.
Sunny: Right? Let's say inside this particular vector, there's my 5-dimensional vector. 1, 2, 3, 4, right?
Sunny: 5. So, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Now, inside this particular vector, I'm going to be concatenate one more 5-dimensional vector. Now, tell me, guys, what is going to be a dimension of that? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Now, tell me, guys, what is going to be a dimension of that?
Sunny: So the dimension is going to be 10 over here. It's a 10-dimension vector.
Sunny: This is what? This is a 10-dimension vector. Let's say, instead of the addition, so what we are doing, guys, we are doing an addition of the vector.
Sunny: Addition of the vector means what? Addition means we have our embedding one. We are going to be added with the positional encoding 1.
Sunny: Okay, and this positional encoding one, basically, it is going to be a same dimension of vector.
Sunny: The same dimension of… vector.
Sunny: The same dimensional vector, this one.
Sunny: Now, here, what we are doing, guys, we are going to be added. But let's say, guys, if we are going to be perform the concatenation.
Sunny: concatenation. We are going to be perform the concatenation, means we are going to be append to vector.
Sunny: We are going to be append to vector.
Sunny: Okay. Now tell me, guys, the dimension of the vector is going to be increased or not?
Sunny: The dimension, basically, is going to be increase.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: the dimension is going to be increased. Okay. Now, if dimension is going to be increased, so tell me, guys, this vector will be processed by the neural network for the neural network, and it will be processed by the self-attention layer, yes or no? So, the dimension of the vector is going to be increased, so it will take up more computational power.
Sunny: Okay, this particular vector further will be processed by the neural network and the self-potential layer. If the dimension is going to be increased, so it will take a more computational power.
Sunny: So that's why, guys, over here, if you will see over here, so what we have, we have an embedding one. This is my positional encoded vector, this one. Okay, so what we are going to do, we are going to perform the addition, addition of the vector.
Sunny: Understood. Is this thing clear to all of you?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no. So, we are going to perform the addition of the vector, right? So, we never concatenate the vector over here.
Sunny: And here, what we are going to do, we are going to perform the addition of the vector. Now, guys, if you will look over here, inside my previous slide, so I've shown you this particular approach, the simple approach, just by the concatenation. If you will look into the simple approach, right? So, what we were doing over there, we were concatenating it.
Sunny: So, again, guys.
Sunny: whether we are going to be concatenate concatenating a full vector, or whether we are going to be concatenating a single scalar value. In both cases, the dimension is going to be increased, right? So again, guys, we don't want to be increase the dimension of our embedding value. That's why we never concatenate the number. And again, guys, again, there is one more reason. This particular approach is going to be fail whenever we are going to be perform the positional
Sunny: encoding.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: So this… that's why, guys, we don't take this particular approach, okay? That's why we never concatenate any value inside our embedded vector.
Sunny: Right? We never… we don't concatenate the value inside our embedded vector, we, perform the addition. Okay, here, basically, we are going to be perform the addition. But still the question is… still the question is basically how we are getting this positional encoded vector.
Sunny: How we are getting this positional and coded vector, PE1 and PE2.
Sunny: So, guys, the answer is very, very simple. So, we are getting this PE1 and PE2 using what? Using the…
Sunny: Tell me, guys, using what? Using the?
Sunny: Sine and cosine curve.
Sunny: Right? So let me write over… let me, paste the graph over here. So this is the graph, guys. You know about the sine and cosine. How many of you know about the sine and cosine, guys? It's a mathematical, it's, it is a mathematical concept.
Sunny: Okay, so if you are going to be learning the mathematics, so inside the trigonometry.
Sunny: It comes in Technometer, right?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, inside the trigonometry, I meet T, R-Y.
Sunny: Inside the trigonometry, basically, we learn about the sine and cause, okay? So we have a concept of the sine, or the cause, right, and the 10.
Sunny: So we always learn all this thing using this, what it is called, guys?
Sunny: We always learn, using this particular, triangle, right?
Sunny: Soap?
Sunny: This is what guys tell me what it is called. It is called the right triangle, okay? So here we have a 90 degree of triangle, and we always learn all this concept in our school.
Sunny: In our 9th and 10th class.
Sunny: Okay, 9th and 10th class. So guys, if you have seen the graph… okay, so if you have seen the graph, how many of you know about the Pythagoras theorem? Have you learned the Pythagoras theorem in your schools?
Sunny: Tell me?
Sunny: Pythagora's theorem. It's a very popular theorem, right? I think, see, in every exam, you will get a question from the Pythagora's theorem only, correct?
Sunny: sine, cos, and 10. So, as of now, I'm not going to be explaining you this Pythagoras theorem, sine, cos, and 10, right? I will just, explain you how the position is being calculated, right? So, if someone is not from the math background, or
Sunny: someone don't know the mathematics, then, I think, guys, you just focus on the positional coding, how it is being performed using the sine and cosine value, right? Now, over here, guys, see.
Sunny: This is a graph, actually. This is a graph of the sine and cosine. So, sine and cosine always create… sine and cosine basically always create a sequential graph, okay? So, can it even tell me, which one is a sine 1 and which one is a cosine one?
Sunny: We have two colors. The first color is going to be a green, the second color is going to be what?
Sunny: The second color is going to be a, what?
Sunny: The second color is going to be a green one.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, which is a sine one and which is a cosine one.
Sunny: So, this graph, actually, it is a cosine one.
Sunny: Sorry, this graph, actually, it is a sine graph, this one.
Sunny: It is a sine one.
Sunny: Okay, and this particular graph, this, purple graph, actually.
Sunny: It's going to be a cosine graph.
Sunny: What is the range of the sine and cosine?
Sunny: May I know, guys, what is a range of the sine and cosine?
Sunny: So, we're talking about the sign, guys.
Sunny: So we're talking about the sine. The sine values lies between minus 2, minus 1 to plus 1.
Sunny: So, sine value always lies Between minus 1, 2, plus 1.
Sunny: And if we're talking about… if we're talking about the cosine, guys, so cosine value.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, cosine value… It always lies, again, from minus 1 to plus 1.
Sunny: Okay? Minus 1, 2, plus 1.
Sunny: cosine value, and the sine value. So over here, if you will see the graph, so the value, basically, it's going to be… lies from where? From minus 1 to…
Sunny: plus 1, 2, minus 1. Okay. Now, over here, guys, see?
Sunny: This is going to be a value.
Sunny: This is going to be what, guys? Tell me? This is going to be a value.
Sunny: Y vertical… the Y vertical you are seeing now? Y1.
Sunny: Are you seeing the Y1? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So this is going to be an encoded value.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: So this is called what? This is called the encoded value, this one.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And coded.
Sunny: value.
Sunny: And on an x-axis, if we're talking about the x-axis, right? So over the x-axis, this one. So this is a position, guys, position of the board.
Sunny: Position of the word.
Sunny: So, let's say, guys, let's see over here. Let's suppose, right, if my word position is 1,
Sunny: If my word position is 1,
Sunny: If my word position is 1, right? So how I will be calculating the position of that? How I will be calculating the position vector?
Sunny: Let me explain you over here. Let's say we have two words.
Sunny: The first word is going to be great.
Sunny: And second word is going to be India.
Sunny: So, are we just going to be right this 1 and 2 for the position? Tell me. Like this, we are going to be defining the position.
Sunny: No, Bhai, we are not doing that, right? No.
Sunny: So, which, what we are going to be use? Tell me. We are going to be use… Sign… And…
Sunny: Cosine concept.
Sunny: Okay. Now, what's the position of it? This is great.
Sunny: the position of it, it is 1, and the position of it, it is going to be 2, right? So what we do, guys, over here, we calculate the value of the sine and cosine.
Sunny: So, sine 1, Sine 1.
Sunny: And… Cosine 1.
Sunny: Then sign to… And cosine 2.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no, tell me.
Sunny: Yes or no. So, this, basically, this sine and cosine. So, we're talking about the sine 1 and cosine 1, so I don't know, sine 1 is how much, I think it is 0.84, right? Somewhere like this. And we're talking about the cosine 1,
Sunny: What is a cosine 1, guys? Cosine 1, basically, it is 0.54. Okay. And if we're talking about the sine 2, what is a sine 2, guys? You can check out the value of it.
Sunny: You can check out the value of it.
Sunny: So, what is the value of it, guys?
Sunny: The value of it around, 0.90, right?
Sunny: And if we're talking about the cosine 2, So…
Sunny: Can someone write in the chat, if you are looking over there?
Sunny: If you're calculating that using the calculator, or if you're checking with the chat GPT, please let me know. Okay, so someone is saying it's going to be 0.
Sunny: 4-1, something like that.
Sunny: Okay, minus. Minus 0.4. So this is the value, guys, right? Now, tell me, guys, this value is a discrete value, this value is a discrete value.
Sunny: No, this value is not a discrete value, this is going to be a continuous value.
Sunny: Alright?
Sunny: So this is going to be a continuous value, okay? So, over here, guys, you can see, we are going to be calculate a position, we are going to be calculate a sine and cosine of the position.
Sunny: We are going to be do… what we are going to be do, guys? We are going to be calculating sine and cosine of the position. Now, over here, guys, let's suppose this grade back… this grade, right? So, this grade, basically, we are passing from the word-to-back model.
Sunny: This grade, we are passing from where? From the word-to-back model.
Sunny: Now, guys, over here, over here.
Sunny: What could be the dimension of the word-to-back model?
Sunny: It could be anything, right? Now, one question to all of you. Whatever word-to-back model they are using inside the original research paper, what's the dimension of that?
Sunny: What is the dimension of that? I think in the previous class only, I told you that. The dimension was that was 1512, right? So this was the original research paper dimension.
Sunny: 512. Inside the original research paper.
Sunny: they are going to be used this particular dimension, right? Research paper.
Sunny: I can take any sort of a dimension. Let's say my dimension… I'm just taking a 6-dimension vector. So, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Just to explain you, okay? I'm just taking 6-dimensional vector. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, just tell me sine 1 and 2, right? So, let me remove this thing from here, this one.
Sunny: And let me write it over here. So guys, what I wanted to do, I wanted to calculate the positional encoding.
Sunny: I wanted to calculate the… Positional encoding, okay? So this is my one word.
Sunny: And this is the another one. So this is the embedding of it. This is my embedding one.
Sunny: Right? And this is what? This is my embedding tool. Now, what I want to do, guys, I wanted to calculate the positional encoding, right? So, I wanted to calculate this PE1,
Sunny: PE1, and here is what? Here is the PE2.
Sunny: This one. Now, guys, tell me, what is the positional encoding? So, the positional encoding is going to be what?
Sunny: sine of 1.
Sunny: Cause of 1.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: sine of 2… And cause of 2.
Sunny: This is going to be what? This is going to be my poochial encoding. Now, what was the value of that? Whatever value will be there, so based on that, we can create a vector. Again, can you recall me a value? I think I missed that, so it is 0.84.
Sunny: Now, over here, it's going to be…
Sunny: How much, guys? 0.84? This was minus 0.4, right?
Sunny: Minus 0.4, and here's 0.9.
Sunny: And cause 1… Cost 1 is going to be how much, guys? Cost 1…
Sunny: is going to be 0.54, right? So this is what, guys? This is going to be my vector. How many value would be there inside the vector? I'm just having 2 value. 0.84, 0.54,
Sunny: And here is what, guys? Here is, basically, is going to be 0.9 and minus 0.4. Now, tell me, guys, whatever positional encoded vector we are getting over here, what is the dimension of that?
Sunny: What is a dimension of that? Tell me, guys, what is a dimension of that? The dimension of that is going to be 2.
Sunny: And what is the dimension of this particular vector, the E1 and E2?
Sunny: The dimension of this particular vector is going to be 6, right? So what I… what I said, what I told you.
Sunny: I told you guys, this dimension
Sunny: And this dimension is going to be same. This dimension, and this dimension is going to be same. Yes? Did I… did I… did I set yes or no? Did I say this thing or yes or no? Now, how this thing is going to be possible?
Sunny: how, basically, the actual position encoding vector is being created. Now, basically, I will explain you with this particular formula. So here, basically, whatever formula I kept, now using this particular formula only, I will explain you how this actual embedding vector is being created. So, guys, are you ready? Tell me.
Sunny: Majarai class mein.
Sunny: Many people are asking, sir, math kapal, yeah?
Sunny: When you will teach math.
Sunny: See, here is a math, guys, right? So, math is always, complex, means, we are going to be learning the internal mathematics and all, everything.
Sunny: of each and every model, or if we are going to see… even if we are going to be cover the RNN, LSTM or neural network, right? So, in the same way, basically,
Sunny: I will have to be, like, teach you, right? So that's why those topics we are not including inside the modern route, because modern route is more about the practical of the Gen AI.
Sunny: Okay? There, guys, this mathematics and all, it is not required, but again.
Sunny: For the transformer, I'm explaining you that so that you can understand all the concept related to the transformer, and you can explain in the interview. But guys, tell me, this position encoding, this sign, cost, everywhere, anywhere, anywhere you are going to be used in any application in industry, huh?
Sunny: No, right? So, here, guys,
Sunny: We have to be focused more on the practical side, but again, as I promised to you, I will explain the transformer in detail. I'm doing that, okay? We'll understand all the components of the transformer in the same way. Let's say if you're not able to understand this thing, means if you're not able to digest in a single go.
Sunny: Watch out the recording of it, okay? Watch out the recording again, and I hope you will be able to get it, okay?
Sunny: No, tell me.
Sunny: Can we check… sorry, can we create a vector? Can we create a position encoded vector using this particular formula? Step by step, one by one, we'll create a vector. Or do you need a break, guys? Even after the break also, I can do that.
Sunny: Okay, so let's do one thing, guys. Let's take a break. I think, we'll take some refreshment.
Sunny: And, you can, again, connect the dots, okay? There is, see, it will take time, actually, Tarek.
Sunny: It will take, maybe 30 more minutes, okay, to at least 25 minutes, so let's take a break, okay?
Sunny: Just have your dinner and all, and then we'll do that.
Sunny: Okay, so I will take one example, and with that example, basically, I'll drive the embedding using this position encoding, and then, basically, we'll move to the next concept. And the next concept, basically, it's going to be a self-attention, okay? We'll understand that.
Sunny: But I'm not able to completely connect. Yes, you will not be able to connect. In single go, who will be able to understand all this thing, huh?
Sunny: It required the revision, Chandana, Chandan, right? So please go through with these notes again, please go through with the session again, or after the session, guys, again, I will revise all this thing, so that you can connect all the thoughts. If you haven't seen my previous session, please check out over there.
Sunny: Sarajka Chuti gardi jih, chuti… Dona yoga.
Sunny: Okay, so some people are saying, sir, please explain that. Okay, let's do one thing, guys. Let's complete it.
Sunny: So just 2 minutes of break, quick water break, and let me complete this particular topic, right? And then I will, jump to the self-attention part.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, just 2 minutes of water break.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's, begin, let's start. I hope everyone is there, right?
Sunny: Okay, yes, position encoding will be added only once, and at the starting of the, at the starting of what, at the starting of the input, okay? Now, over here, guys, they have introduced two formulas. The one, basically is going to be a sine function, and the second is going to be what?
Sunny: Second is going to be a cosine function. So, over here, guys, what I was doing, so over here, whatever encoded value I have shown you.
Sunny: So, I've shown you like this. I had the sine, sine of what?
Sunny: Sign of the position.
Sunny: Okay, then cause of the position.
Sunny: The sign of the position.
Sunny: And then… Cause of the position.
Sunny: Right? So this was the, this was the…
Sunny: formula, which I have used when I was creating this vector. Now, over here, just observe, guys, when this vec- so, is this the same formula?
Sunny: So, are they using the same formula over here?
Sunny: No, guys, right? So there is… the formula is not the same over here.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, we don't have sign of position.
Sunny: And we don't have cause of position.
Sunny: Instead of that, they are going to be used something like this.
Sunny: Sign of position.
Sunny: divided by… 10,000 to I.
Sunny: divided by… T of Model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Then, cause of… position.
Sunny: divided by… 10,000.
Sunny: 2i, D of model.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Right? Now, first of all, we'll have to understand the notation, right? All the meaning of it. So, what is the meaning of POS, guys? Tell me.
Sunny: So, PO is nothing, it is a position.
Sunny: What is the meaning of this D of model?
Sunny: So, D of model, basically, it is a dimension of word-to-back model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: dimension of embedding.
Sunny: Dimension of embedding model.
Sunny: So let's say if I'm saying dimension… my embedding model dimension is 6, what will be the value of D model?
Sunny: 6. Let's say if I'm saying my, embedding word-to-back model is going to be generate a 12-dimensional vector, then what will be the value of D model? It's going to be 12, right?
Sunny: Now, what is an I over here? This I, basically, it is showing the range, actually.
Sunny: from which range to which range, we have to calculate the number, okay? Now, over here, we're talking about the I, so how this I will be calculated.
Sunny: This I will be calculated like this. See, I… Okay, equal to 0 minus… D model, Okay, D model.
Sunny: by 2.
Sunny: Right? And what we are going to be do, guys? We are going to be doing a minus of that.
Sunny: Okay? So zero, basically, it's a lower range. This zero is what? This zero, actually, it's a lower range.
Sunny: Let me again rewrite this formula so that you will get a better understanding.
Sunny: So, it is telling a range, actually.
Sunny: lower range.
Sunny: to upper range.
Sunny: Okay. Now, over here, guys, this, i value is going to be start from where? It's going to be start from zero.
Sunny: 2 minus? Minus what?
Sunny: B model.
Sunny: D model. Okay, D model means dimension of model, divided by 2, minus 1.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: minus 1.
Sunny: So this is going to be a range. This is the lower range.
Sunny: This is not a minus, guys, okay? Giro?
Sunny: This is the lower range, and this is the upper range. This value, actually, it's the upper range.
Sunny: Getting my point? So let's say, let's say, if we have a vector.
Sunny: Let's say I have a word. My word is a great.
Sunny: India.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, let's say my embedding model, my word-to-back model, is going to be generate an embedding of 6 dimension.
Sunny: Okay, so here my word-to-back model is going to be generate a six-dimension embedding. One… 2…
Sunny: 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sunny: And then this is the sixth one, right?
Sunny: Then here is also 6.
Sunny: 1?
Sunny: 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, you can see this is my embedding one.
Sunny: And this is what, this is my embedding tool.
Sunny: Now, let's calculate the range of i, right? What will be the range of i? So, we're going to be calculate a range of i. Now, how we'll do that, guys? Just focus over here.
Sunny: So, I is equal to lower range. What is a lower range? Tell me?
Sunny: What's the lower range over here? Lower range is going to be 0, minus… what is the dimension of model?
Sunny: The word-to-back dimension of the model is going to be what? 6?
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: So, 6 divided by 2 minus 1.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So what is the range, guys? What is the range I'm getting?
Sunny: The range, basically, I'm getting 0 minus, 0 minus…
Sunny: 2, 3, 3 minus 1 is going to be 2.
Sunny: 0 to 2. So what is the i value? I value, basically, is going to be 0, 1, and 2. So for this, i is equal to 0, i is equal to 1, and I is equal to 2, I have to calculate the
Sunny: I have to calculate the vector.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you? Tell me, yes or no. Is it getting clear? What is a position? What is a dimension, and what is the eye and all?
Sunny: If this thing is clear, please let me know, guys, so that I can calculate the value.
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Lower range is going to be 0, upper range is going to be D model divided by 2 minus 1, okay? Now, let's say this is what, this is my two words, greater India. For this one, if I have to calculate the positional encoded vector, so let me show you the complete calculation over here. I'm showing you over the fresh page, right?
Sunny: So let's say I have a two-word.
Sunny: My first word is going to be what?
Sunny: Our first word is going to be great.
Sunny: A second word is going to be India.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, just assume, guys, this mod… this word-to-back model is giving me 6-dimension vector.
Sunny: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So this is going to be my embedding one.
Sunny: And this is going to be my embedding tool, right?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This is going to be my embedding, too. Now, I have to calculate the positional embedding. What I have to do, guys, I have to calculate the PE1 of it.
Sunny: And I have to calculate the PE2 of it.
Sunny: Okay? So how I will do that? So, what is the position of… what is the position of this grade, guys? Tell me.
Sunny: What's the position of this grid?
Sunny: So, the position of grid is going to be 0. See, position will always start 0, okay? 0, 1, 2, 3, like this. And the position of this India is going to be 1, right? So, in research paper, basically, they have told us, let's say we have a sentence.
Sunny: My sentence is going to be like this. I… love… my country.
Sunny: So, how many tokens we have over here?
Sunny: How many tokens we have?
Sunny: We have 4 tokens. So how we will do the numbering of that? Let's say I have to tell the position.
Sunny: So, position, basically, will also start from 0, 1, 2,
Sunny: Is it clear, guys? Tell me yes or no. So, we have 4 tokens over here.
Sunny: We have 4 tokens over here.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Is it making sense to all of you? Everyone is able to understand this part or not?
Sunny: If you are able to understand, please let me know. Okay? So what's going to be a position? Position is going to be 0 and 1.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, tell me what is the dimension of the model, if we're talking about the dimension of the model.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, what is going to be a dimension of the model?
Sunny: The dimension of the model is going to be 6.
Sunny: So, let's calculate the i value. So, i value is going to be from 0 to…
Sunny: Tell me, guys, 6 divided by 2 minus 1.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So what I'll get over here, I'll get 0 to 2.
Sunny: So, 0 to 2 means what? I is equal to 0, I is equal to 1, i is equal to 2.
Sunny: So, let's calculate the vector now.
Sunny: So first, guys, I'm going to be calculate for…
Sunny: 1. So, for 0, basically, okay? So, here is what, guys? Here is I is equal to 0.
Sunny: 4, i is equal to 0.
Sunny: Then, for i is equal to… 1.
Sunny: And then 4 watt for I is equal to… 2.
Sunny: Now, here is also same.
Sunny: 4… I is equal to 0.
Sunny: 4.
Sunny: I is equal to 1.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And 4, i is equal to 2.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, how we will be calculating that? Let me tell you, over here.
Sunny: So, positional encoding, basically, let me write over here. Positional encoding, for which position we are going to be calculated. So, here we are going to be calculate for position 0.
Sunny: And here, we are going to be calculate for position 1.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, yes or no, is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Tell me, tell me, tell me fast, yes or no?
Sunny: Yes? So how we will do that? So, over here, guys, see, first I'll write PE, first I'll calculate the sine value, okay? So let me calculate the sine value.
Sunny: P.E.
Sunny: P of what? P of 0 to 0.
Sunny: P what? P , 0 to 0. Okay?
Sunny: Then over here, guys, what I'll do, tell me…
Sunny: Over here, I'll calculate for what?
Sunny: B, P for what?
Sunny: P4.
Sunny: This is going to be what is going to be a position.
Sunny: There's 0 is what? 0 is what? 0 is my position. Okay, and then 1.
Sunny: And then P what?
Sunny: 0 to 1.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, I'm going to be calculated forward.
Sunny: B… 0 to 2.
Sunny: and PE.
Sunny: 0 to 2.
Sunny: Understanding, guys, yes or no. Now, over here, guys, I've been talking about, so it will be like this, PE,
Sunny: P for what? 1, 2?
Sunny: Sorry.
Sunny: 1, 2, 1, right? 1, 2, 1 would be there, no?
Sunny: Okay, 4 is equal to, yeah. So, first position 0, and PE what? P, basically.
Sunny: 1…
Sunny: 1 is what, 1 is my position, and 0 is my eye value. Now, over here, guys, it would be like this. P for what?
Sunny: Tell me, guys.
Sunny: P4?
Sunny: 1 is equal to 1, right? And P for…
Sunny: 1 is equal to 1, right?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, what will be the value? P4.
Sunny: 1 is equal to 2, sorry, 1 and 2, and P4, 1 is 1 and 2. Now, over here, what I'll do, I'll calculate my value.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So over here, I will be calculating what? I'll be calculating the value. So what is the formula, guys? So the formula is something like this, sine.
Sunny: Right? Sign.
Sunny: Now, just look into the formula. What is the formula, guys? If you will check with the formula, let me keep the formula handy over here.
Sunny: So I'm just going to be keep the formula handy over here.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Just look at the formula right inside. This one.
Sunny: This is the formula.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This is the formula, guys. Okay, it is a 2IE, okay.
Sunny: Guys, it is a…
Sunny: 2I, it is saying 2I. Okay, I will correct that value, don't worry, where I can keep it. Can I keep it over here, guys? Just for now? Is it visible to all of you? I'll remove it from there. Okay? So, over here, guys, they are saying, sign, okay…
Sunny: I think this is fine, right? So over here, what they are saying, they are saying sign of position. So what's the position? Can anyone tell me what's the position? Position is going to be 0. Let me write over here. The position is going to be 0. Divided by what? Divided by 1000.
Sunny: 10… sorry, divide by 10,000. 2i means what? 2i. I is equal to 0, right? So everything will become 0 over here, so it's going to be 0.
Sunny: Now, here also, cost, what is, what is going to be a cause, guys? 0 divided by…
Sunny: 10,000 and 0.
Sunny: Making sense or not? Is this thing clear or not to all of you? Tell me.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, see, I think I will have to correct this particular value. Let me correct this value, okay?
Sunny: So, according to this particular formula, na, what I will have to keep…
Sunny: According to this particular formula, it will be 2I. So 2I is going to be what? 2i is going to be 0, this is going to be 0. 2I plus is going to be 1, okay? So this will become the value, this one.
Sunny: Understood. Is it getting clear to all of you? Now, over here, guys, what it will become?
Sunny: It will become position into 2i. Position into 2i means what?
Sunny: 2 into 1. This is the INA. So, 0, 2. 2 into 1 is going to be 2, right? And here, 2 into 1 is going to be 3 over here.
Sunny: I will tell you what is this, just a second. In some time, it is going to be Kiliara, okay? Now, over here, guys, it's going to be 4 and 5.
Sunny: Okay, this is going to be what, this is going to be 4, and this is going to be what? This is going to be 5.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is this value clear to all of you?
Sunny: Yes, so similar to that, we'll have to be correct this value also. It is just an index, actually, sorry. I return incorrect over here, 012345. It is an index, actually, with respect to the… this position vector. So let me correct this value also.
Sunny: So, here, what I can do, guys, I can write like this. It's going to be 0, 1, it's going to be 2 and 3, it's going to be 4 and 5.
Sunny: Okay? Now, tell me, guys, what will be the final value over here? Sine 0 is going to be how much? Sine 0 is going to be 0.
Sunny: Cosine 0. Cosine 0 is going to be 1 over here.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you?
Sunny: Yes or no? Now, over here, guys, here, sign.
Sunny: Okay? Here is what's sign. Now, what I'll do, guys, position. What is the position? Position is going to be 0.
Sunny: Divided by… 10,000.
Sunny: And then, 1 by 3. Here, basically, I'll get 1x3. You can see over here, what is the diamond… what is the I value? 2 into 1.
Sunny: Okay? 2 into 1, and what is the dimension? My dimension is 6. So, 2 by 6 is going to be 1 by 3. Okay, that's why I written 1 by 3 over here. And now here also, cosine, what will be the cosine value? So, 0 divided by…
Sunny: 10,000 1x3. Now, tell me what will be the final value over here.
Sunny: The final value is going to be 0 and 1.
Sunny: Okay? Now, with respect to the second one.
Sunny: With respect to the second one, zero.
Sunny: 10,000. Now, here, 2 by 3. Okay, you can calculate that, it will be 2x3. Then 0, then sine, guys, 0 divided by 1, 2, 3, 4.
Sunny: 2 by 3. Now, over here, what's going to be our value? 1. So, this is our first positional vector, guys.
Sunny: This is our first positional vector. So what is going to be our first positional vector? Can anyone tell me what is going to be our first positional vector? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. So what's going to be our first positional vector? See, this is the position, this 0. First zero is representing a position.
Sunny: Okay, and the second, value, it is representing a value, the actual value. It will come on which index, right? So 010101. So this is going to be our first positional encoding vector. 010101.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, tell me.
Sunny: Katha aapna embedding ka size. What was our embedding size? What was the dimension of that?
Sunny: Tell me, tell me, sex.
Sunny: And what is a positional coding dimension?
Sunny: What's a position coding dimension? Tell me, tell me, tell me, 6.
Sunny: So did we… did we calculate it the same or not using this particular formula? Yes or no?
Sunny: Yes? So, like, that only, they have done that.
Sunny: Okay, let's calculate over here, let's do it over here as well.
Sunny: So, over here, guys, I'm going to be calculate. Did you understand it now? Did you understand it now?
Sunny: Okay? So what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be right over here, 1 divided by 10,000. This value is going to be 0, right? Now, here is what caused…
Sunny: 1 divided by…
Sunny: 10,000, okay? And then, it's going to be a 0. Now, tell me, guys, what is a sine 1? It's going to be 0.84.
Sunny: What is the cost 1? It's going to be 0.54, okay? You can calculate that, it would be same. Now, we're talking about the sign over here, so it's going to be what? 1 divided by…
Sunny: 10,000, and this is going to be what? 1 by 3. Now, if you will calculate this value, guys, I already calculated using the scientific calculator, so it's going to be 0.04. Now, for this particular one, so here I'm going to be right, 1 divided by 1, 2, 3, 4,
Sunny: Okay, and 1 by 3. Now, over here, the value will come 0.99.
Sunny: Now, guys, here…
Sunny: PE, right? So, for this particular, number, for i is equal to 2, so it's going to be what? 1 divided by 1 000 and 2 by 3. Now, I already calculated a value. It is around 0.08, maybe. Okay, 0.00.
Sunny: So it's going to be 0.001, something like that. And here, the cost one, basically, it's going to be 1 divided by 1000 and 2 by 3.
Sunny: Now, over here, it will come, 0.99. So this is going to be what, guys? Tell me. This is going to be my positional encoded vector 2. So let me… let me do one thing.
Sunny: Let me write over here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So what is the value, guys? Tell me, what is the value I return over here? The value is going to be 0.84, 0.54,
Sunny: 0.04, 0.99, 0.01, and 0.
Sunny: 98, okay? This is going to be a value. So, like this, guys, they have coded
Sunny: they have created a positional and coded vector from the data. This I value, actually, it is regulating the… it is regulating the vector size, okay? The range, basically, we are creating now based upon the
Sunny: We have on the dimension of the vector. Now, tell me, guys, is this thing clear or not? If you will go through with the entire notes now, will you be able to understand everything? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me, tell me, tell me. So, how's the explanation so far? Did you like it? Did you understand everything?
Sunny: We'll revise all this thing, guys. Okay? So people were asking to me, sir, how this position encoded vector have been created.
Sunny: So here I've shown you mathematically, mathematically, I prove, how this vector have been created.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Vector means number, so using this particular formula, basically, they are going to be do that.
Sunny: Again, I will give you the quick revision, guys, don't worry, you will be able to understand that.
Sunny: So, this is the complete explanation of the position encoding. I will give you the… again, again, I will give you the intition of it, one more level of revision, so that you can understand in a better way.
Sunny: But I think more than that, you no need to understand. If you are able to understand this much of this much of concept, and if you are able to explain the formula, at least inside the interview, you can simply say, sir, can I open the research paper? This is the formula, and I know how this formula has been derived. You can take this particular example, the same example, and you can explain that.
Sunny: If someone is asking this question, okay?
Sunny: Sir, please check my question. THR, you can ask me, I can take your question in doubt session. Don't worry if I have missed that.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: Okay, fine, guys. So, let's do one thing, let's take a quick break, let's take some refreshment, and after that, again, I will give you the quick revision, and we'll start with a new concept that is going to be a self-attention.
Sunny: Okay, fine. So, thank you guys, I'm taking a break now. I'll come back after 20 minutes, and I will clarify a couple of more doubts, basically, how it is going to be… sorry, I will give you one more level of revision, and then we'll move to the next concept. Okay? Thank you, guys.
Sunny: 20 minute of break, take it, 20 minute kaleo, okay? Or let's put it for the 19 minute.
Sunny: Fine, guys, so let's take a break, and then we'll start again. Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so… can we start the session again?
Sunny: If everyone is there, please let me know, I'll start the session.
Sunny: Okay, so tell me, guys, is this concept clear or not? I'll provide you these notes, right after the session, so that you can go through with it.
Sunny: Can we revise the… can we revise all these things so that, we can move to the next topic, okay?
Sunny: Great. So I'm just giving you the quick revision of it, and after that, guys, what I'll do…
Sunny: I will pick up the next concept.
Sunny: Sir, when we will start the lanction? Langshin will start after 8 to 9 classes.
Sunny: So you can think, from the RAG module itself, we are going to be start the langchain. Got it?
Sunny: So, hi, Sunny, I got confused when you changed 2I from IE in positional encoding.
Sunny: No, same now, right? Once you will look into this calculation from your end, you will get it. You will understand that, okay? It is not very difficult. Just go through with the…
Sunny: Just go through with this particular calculation. I'll give you the quick revision of it.
Sunny: Fine, guys, so let's take a quick revision within 5 minutes, and then we'll move to the next one.
Sunny: Okay, so…
Sunny: What is the meaning of the positional encoding? I think the definition in all, everything is clear. So what we have to do, guys, we have to generate the positional encoded vector, okay? So this is our main aim.
Sunny: we have to generate the positional encoded vector. So, first, I, shown you this simple approach. Here, basically, we were not using any sine or cosine. We were just, adding the position with 1, 2, and 3.
Sunny: But this position is having some drawback, and because of that, we were not using this particular position, right? The simple approach.
Sunny: Now, over here, I have explained you one more concept, guys. So, we are not going to be concatenate the vector, because if we are going to be concatenate the vector, in that case, the dimension of the vector is going to be 2 huge, and
Sunny: our computational power is going to be increased. Got it? So this is the second thing.
Sunny: Now, instead of that, what we are doing, we are going to be at the vector. Now, here is one more thing I explained. So, we are having an embedding vector, right?
Sunny: So, according to the embedding vector only, with a similar size only, right, the same dimension of vector, we are going to be create over here as well. So, this position encoded vector, actually, it is a… it will be the same size of vector.
Sunny: Okay? The position encoder vector which we are going to be create, it would be a same size of vector. Now, how we are going to be… do that? How this thing is possible? So, here I have explained you with this particular formula. Here is the formula, guys. See, I kept this formula over here.
Sunny: So, guys, the… I started with the sine concept, okay? So, this is the sine graph, this is the cosine graph, and here I said the range of that, here I told you the range of the sine and cosine, okay?
Sunny: Now, here you can see, so earlier, basically, we were just having the position of the, position of the token, let's say 1 or 2.
Sunny: So we are passing that particular position to the sine and cosine, okay? But over here, guys, you can see it is just going to become a two-dimensional vector, right? And, here you can see we have a six-dimensional vector, or whatever number of dimension. It could be 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, whatever number it could be. It is a hyperparameter, okay?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, you can see, this is the formula, basically, they have introduced inside the research paper. I haven't, created this formula by myself. Whatever formula they have used inside the research paper, I took the same formula in front of you, and I tried to explain the derivation of that.
Sunny: Right? So, I explained the meaning of the different, different terms and the terminology inside the formula.
Sunny: Like, what is the meaning of the position?
Sunny: POS means what? POS means the position, okay? Then it is going to be divided by this 1002I divided by D model. So what is this D model, guys? D model is nothing, it is a dimension of the embedding model. So whatever embedding model we are… whatever dimension embedding model we are using, the word-to-back model, it is just a dimension of that, okay?
Sunny: And I basically, it is representing a range, right? From which range to which range, okay?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, you can see, I have shown you how, basically, we can calculate it. So, let's say if we have two words, Great India, we could have multiple words, right? We could have a 10 words, 20 words, 1000 words, 1 lakh words inside the one single sentence. So, along with the embedding vector, we have to basically
Sunny: We have to cal- we have to, like, find out this position encoded vector also. We have to create this position encoded vector also, okay? So that we can, we can, intake the position of the data, okay? We can keep the position of the data, we can keep the sequence of the data. Now, here, guys, what we'll do, see, this is the first word, great, and this is the second word.
Sunny: Now, how the position is going to be start? So, position will always start from the zero.
Sunny: Right? Position will always start from the zero. So this is the position of the first word, this is the position of the second word, okay?
Sunny: Now, what is the dimension of the model? So, this is the dimension of the word-to-back model. So the word-to-back model, basically, which I took, I just considered a dimension of that model as 6. You can keep any sort of a dimension, and according to that, you can do the calculation, right?
Sunny: Now, what is this i, guys? So, i is saying, i is giving us a range, it is saying how many times, basically, we have to calculate a value of sine and cosine.
Sunny: So for the zeroth position, for the zero, basically, for the zero index, for the zero value, we are going to be calculate a sine and cosine value, right? For the 1 also, we are going to be calculate sine and cosine value.
Sunny: For the 2 also, we are going to be calculate sine and cosine value.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, 1 sine, 1 cosine, 1 sine, 1 cosine, one sine, 1 cosine. So, what is the diamond… what is going to be a dimension of the vector? Dimension is going to be 6.
Sunny: It is similar to what? It is similar to the word-to-back dimension model. It is similar to that word-to-back model dimension, right? So, likewise, it is going to be handled that dimension of the position encoding vector, okay?
Sunny: Getting my point, yes or no? For every I, guys, for every I's, it is going to be calculate sine value as well as the cosine value. The same thing I have written over here as well, as you can see. So…
Sunny: This is the formula, guys. This is the formula, this one. So, 4i is equal to 0, right? So, position is what? Position is 0.
Sunny: So, position is over here, as you can see, and this is what? This is the index value. So, 2 into I, so 2 into i is equal to 0. 2 into i plus 1 is going to be 1. Okay, so this is a 0th index, this is the first index.
Sunny: then 2 into I means 2 into 1, 2 into 1 is going to be 2, and then 2 into 1 plus 1 is going to be 3. So this is the fourth index. So this is the first index, 0th index, second index, 1 index, okay?
Sunny: This is going to be a third index, this is going to be a fourth index, okay? First value, second value, third value, fourth value, and then…
Sunny: This is going to be a fifth value, and this is going to be a sixth value. Now, how we are going to be calculating a value? So here, guys, this is a way of calculating a value. The sine zero, okay, 0 is a position, divided by… this is the 10,000, right?
Sunny: right, then, the power of it, it's going to be 2i, right, and then divided by dimension of model. So over here, guys, you can see I capped this value, and I calculated a vector, so I'm getting this particular vector.
Sunny: Right? Now, this particular vector, basically, it's going to be gonna… this particular vector is going to be add to our embedded vector. So, whatever embedded vector we have, this E1, we are going to be… we are going to be perform… we are going to be perform the addition of both vectors, this positional encoded vector and this E1,
Sunny: And whatever final vector we are getting, let's say this is my Y1 vector, okay?
Sunny: or I can say X1 vector, right?
Sunny: So this particular vector, this X1 vector, we are going to be passed where, we are going to be passed. This particular vector, basically, we are going to be passed here.
Sunny: we are going to be passed to the… tell me where we are passing, we are passing it to the self-attention layer, okay? So this X1 and X2 vector, we are going to be passed it to the self-attention layer. Now, this, this position encoded one, guys, this particular vector, actually, it is coming from the sinusoidal wave, right? This continuous wave, actually, this one.
Sunny: Right? This one. So, as I told you guys, this particular… this particular vertical, it's going to be, contain the value.
Sunny: Right? And this particular dimension is going to be contained the position. So if my position is going to be increased.
Sunny: Right? So we are going to be… we are going to be calculated a position value, right? Position value.
Sunny: what we are going to be calculated? Position value. So it is in a sequence. It is maintaining a sequence. It is maintaining what? It is maintaining a sequence, okay? So, over here, you can see, because of that, we are going to be at this particular vector in our data, in our actual data set. So, whatever vector we'll be getting, X2 vector, so it will maintain the sequence of the data.
Sunny: Because it is being derived from this sinusoidal wave, this sine and cosine wave, actually. Getting my point? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Yes? How many people are able to understand it or not?
Sunny: Suppose in… single batch or context, window the positional encoding well located. Now, even in the second batch context.
Sunny: Yeah, position encoding, position encoding will create every time, with respect to… with respect to every token, okay? Every token will be having their respective positional encoded vector.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Tell me yes or no. Is this idea as clear to all of you? Now, once you will go through with these notes, you will understand that. If you have any sort of a… if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session. Josna is saying, not confused.
Sunny: Why confusion? Simple now, right?
Sunny: Very, very simple. What is there? I think, it's a very, like, a basic thing now, right?
Sunny: how it is preserving the order. It is preserving the order like this, no?
Sunny: Position of… this is the position of the words, right?
Sunny: position of the… let's say this is the second position, right? So, with respect to second position, these are the value. These are the value. Now, with respect to third position, again, we would be having one vector. With respect to the third position… with respect to the fourth position, again, we would be having some vector, okay?
Sunny: So let me do one thing, let me remove it from here, just a second.
Sunny: First of all, just tell me, guys.
Sunny: Are you able to understand this calculation or not? Just tell me that only. Are you able to understand this calculation, this entire calculation? Yes or no? How many of you are able to understand that?
Sunny: How many of you, you are able to understand that, this calculation?
Sunny: Only one person is saying no. What is the name of that person?
Sunny: Rivan Shaddart.
Sunny: Yeah, what's your doubt, Rivan?
Sunny: And one more person, Rama Krishna. Only two person is saying no, everyone is saying yes, yes, yes. Okay.
Sunny: Not clearly.
Sunny: One more person is saying no. See, what is there inside this calculation? Nothing is there, I just calculated based on this formula.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, what you have to do, guys, you just have to look into this particular slide, this formula, okay, and do the practice over the pen and paper, right after the class. If you have any sort of a doubt, then you can ask me in the next class, okay? Now, what I'm doing, guys, just, I'm giving, like, answer of one more question over here. See?
Sunny: Let's say I'm writing one word over here.
Sunny: My word is going to be something like this. What I can write. I can write anything, right? So, today.
Sunny: I am teaching.
Sunny: Today?
Sunny: what I'm teaching, guys, tell me. Today, I'm teaching positional encoding, right? So this is what, this is my sentence, this one.
Sunny: No, just tell me over here.
Sunny: How many tokens we have inside this data.
Sunny: We have how many tokens we have inside this data.
Sunny: We have 5 tokens, okay?
Sunny: 5 tokens.
Sunny: So if I can write the token over here, so we have 5 tokens.
Sunny: Let's say if I'm writing over here, today is basically 0, this is 1, this is 2, this is 3, this is 4.
Sunny: Right? So this is what, guys, this is the position of the data.
Sunny: Understood. Now, I told you how we are going to create a positional encoded vector using the sinusodial and the cosine function, okay? So, how the cosine function look like? This is a cosine function.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: Right? What is the range of the cosine function? The range of the cosine function between
Sunny: Minus 1, 2 plus 1.
Sunny: So this is what, this is the axis, this is my Y axis.
Sunny: So it is having what? It is having a value, a number. Okay? So this is my encoded value.
Sunny: This is my encoded value.
Sunny: And here, guys, what we are going to be keep…
Sunny: At this particular one, we are going to be keep the position.
Sunny: So let's say this is the 0th position, this is 1st position, This is…
Sunny: Second position, this is third position, this is fourth position.
Sunny: So this is what guys tell me, this is the position.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Are we going to be calculate an encoded value with one single graph, with one single function? No, we are going to be use a to function over here, right? So what is my other function? Tell me, guys, what is my other function? So my other function is a… tell me, what is the other function? The other function is going to be a…
Sunny: The other function is going to be what? The other function is going to be cosine function, right? So let's say this is what? This is my cosine function. I can draw the cosine function, right? Just a second.
Sunny: So this is my cosine function. Okay, something like this.
Sunny: So this is my cosine. It could be wrong or what, but yeah, it would be like this only. Now, again, the range of the cosine value will be 0 to 1 only. So, green one is a sign, because it is going to be start from 0, right? And cos 0, cause 0 is always… cause 0 is always what?
Sunny: So cos 0 is always basically zero, okay? So I can write like this, just a second.
Sunny: So, 1… Or this… this?
Sunny: this.
Sunny: So what I can do, guys, I can write like this. This is a zero.
Sunny: This is 1, this is 2, this is 3, this is 4, okay?
Sunny: Now, tell me over here, guys, tell me over here. If we're talking about… if we're talking about, right, what we're talking about, tell me. If we're talking about the cost 0 and sine 0, right? So, how we are going to be decide the value of this particular position, the 0th position, with the sign, as well as the cost.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Right? So, cos 0 and sine 0, this one. Now, for the first one also, sine 1 and cosine 1. For the sine… for the second position also, sine and cosine. For the third position also, sine and cosine. For the fourth position also, sine and cosine. Now, tell me, guys, is this graph in a sequence? Yes or no?
Sunny: Is this graph in a sequence? It's a sequential graph.
Sunny: Yes or no? So, because of this particular function only, because of this particular function only, because of this particular function only, we are going to be… we are going to be maintain the sequence of the position.
Sunny: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, okay. The zero position, 1, 2, 3, 4, it's not a discrete number, actually. It's not a discrete number, no. It is a continuous number.
Sunny: And how that continuous number is coming? It is coming from the sine and cosine.
Sunny: And it is in a sequence, it is in an order. So, 0th position, 1 second, third, fourth, whatever vector, basically, I'll be getting.
Sunny: whatever vector I will be getting. See, for one single position, for one single position, I'm going to be calculate 2 value, sine and cosine. For again, for this also, sine and cosine, sine and cosine, sine and cosine. Okay, so for one single position, we are going to be decided a value from two functions.
Sunny: Okay? Now, why we are doing that? Again, there is one more reason behind that. The reason, basically, the reason behind that is, so that we can sustain the longer context, actually. The longer context, okay? Because of that only, we are doing this thing. So, for one single position, right.
Sunny: We are talking about a zero, right? So for one single position, we are going to be… have a combination of the sine cosine, sine, cosine, sine cosine, right? But guys, here I've shown you the complete calculation. With this particular calculation, you can understand better. Now, why I'm giving you this example, so that you can understand how we are going to be maintaining the sequence of the data.
Sunny: how I am able to maintain the sequence of the data. I am able to maintain the sequence of the data because of the sine and cosine function, because it's a sequential function.
Sunny: Okay, and now over here, guys, you can see…
Sunny: on this x-axis, basically, we have a position, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and all. And in this same position, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and all only, I'm going to be collect a value of the sine and cosine, okay? And with that, actually, I'm going to be form a vector, and that vector, basically, it is having a sequence, sequence information. So whatever vector, basically, we are going to be form over here, this particular vector, it is having a
Sunny: Sequence information.
Sunny: Okay, the number, basically, which is coming, it is coming in a sequence. And how it is coming, guys? It is coming because of this sine and cosine functionality.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me, is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: I think, everyone is able to understand this thing. If still you have any doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session, right?
Sunny: Fine, guys, I think I took 2 hours to explain you this concept. Now let's move to the next concept. So we have successfully covered our first concept with the entire derivation. Now, let's, discuss the next thing, which is going to be a self-attention. So, guys, are you ready for this particular thing? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So, let's understand this part now. So, self-attention is having a different, a different variant, actually.
Sunny: So, we're talking about the self-attention. So, first, this is going to be a basic variant, the first variant.
Sunny: Then, guys, we have multi-added self-attention. Again, multi-added self-attention means
Sunny: Multi-self-attention means what? Multiple, basically, multiple weight selection, okay? We are taking a multiple set of weights, and we are going to be, multiply with our input, so that we can capture as much as, information from the data, okay?
Sunny: So, we'll understand this, multi-head self-attention also.
Sunny: But before that, we'll have to be understand this, self-attention concept. And then two more things is also there, cross-attention and the mass self-attention.
Sunny: So, yeah, that will also be clear, okay?
Sunny: So, guys, you can let me know,
Sunny: If you have learned the self-attention earlier or not.
Sunny: No, right?
Sunny: Okay. Only 4 to 5 people are saying they have learned, and…
Sunny: Few people are saying they know about it. I think most of the people are saying they don't know. Okay, great. Yeah, that's fine then.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: No worries, guys. So, let's see.
Sunny: even talking about this self-attention, right? So I can explain you with one sentence. Okay, I'll take one sentence, and I'll explain you with that.
Sunny: So let's say we have…
Sunny: We have the sentence. Yesterday, only I written one sentence. I think you know about it.
Sunny: So the sentence is going to be what?
Sunny: money.
Sunny: Bang.
Sunny: grow.
Sunny: Right? So this is what, this is my sentence.
Sunny: Can you see this sentence, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay. Now… See, if I wanted to represent a bank over here, this bank word.
Sunny: If I wanted to represent this bank world.
Sunny: How I will represent, guys, tell me. So, I will write it like this, W1.
Sunny: Money.
Sunny: plus… W2.
Sunny: Bank.
Sunny: And then here I will write, W3.
Sunny: grow.
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Is it clear to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny: Is this thing clear or not? Okay. Now, guys, if we're talking about this W1, W2, and W3,
Sunny: Right? So, here, see, what is this?
Sunny: This is a… This is basically what…
Sunny: This is the dot product, actually. This W1, W2, and W3, this one.
Sunny: This dot product, basically.
Sunny: It's a query in the… this dot product, actually, this W1 and W2, actually, it's a dot product of the…
Sunny: Covariant key.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Query and key.
Sunny: Now, how to write this W1W2? Let me tell you over here. It is a similarity, actually. It is a similarity. So, I told you, whenever we're talking about the similarity.
Sunny: Guys, I will cover 50% of the concept in today's class, okay? And then rest 50% in the next class, about the self-attention, and most probably in the next class, we will be able to finish the self-attention, multi-attention, cross-attention, and masked self-attention, okay? I'll tell you all the self-attention concept in the single class outly.
Sunny: Then we'll discuss about the layer normalization, and after that, the end-to-end flow, and then we'll wrap up this topic, okay?
Sunny: So we're talking about a similarity, so using the dot product.
Sunny: Can we calculate the similarity? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Using the dot product, can we calculate a similarity?
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: Right? So we're talking about this W1 and W2 and W3, so it is nothing, it is a similarity. It is a similarity between what? So let me write over here.
Sunny: The similarity between this… embedding… of bank.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: I can write like this, embedding of bank.
Sunny: And… Embedding of what? Embedding of money.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: So this is a W1, actually.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, here, what I'll do, guys, I'll write money as it is, so this is going to be what? This is going to be my money.
Sunny: Right? And you will have to hear this self-attention concept very patiently, guys, because each and everything is going to be clear going forward.
Sunny: Now, here, this is going to be via… Similarity between what eBank Okay?
Sunny: And dot product what? Dot product between eBank and eBank.
Sunny: Now, here is what? Here is my bank, right? This particular term.
Sunny: Then, guys, this… this grow, right? This W3, how I can represent this W3.
Sunny: So I can represent this W3. I can write like this.
Sunny: EOB board.
Sunny: E of… E of what? E of Bank.
Sunny: Okay? And dot, dot award, and grow.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: So, it is what? It is a similarity, basically, similarity between what? eBank and eGrow. Now, here is what, guys, tell me, here is my grow.
Sunny: So this would be the grow.
Sunny: Now, this particular vector, this particular vector, this one, This is called my… query.
Sunny: And this particular vector is called my… Key.
Sunny: Okay? This particular vector is called my key. If I can show you the dot product, so how the dot product will be represented.
Sunny: So, this is my one of the vector guys, this one.
Sunny: This is my one of the vector.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, here is my another vector. So, I'm going to be perform the dot product.
Sunny: Let me… mention over here, let me write over here, okay? This is the another vector.
Sunny: So this is what, guys, tell me, this is the e-bank vector.
Sunny: And this is what? E?
Sunny: money vector, okay? So, we are going to be perform a dot product of it.
Sunny: And this is going to be multiply with what?
Sunny: this money.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? So this money isn't a thing, it is an embedding, actually, right? So this will also be an embedding. So here, what I can do, I can write the embedding, okay? So just give me a second, I'm going to write over here.
Sunny: I'm going to withdraw the embedding. So this is what? This is the embedding of what? This is the embedding of money. So E…
Sunny: money, okay? Now, how to represent this one? How to represent this, particular thing?
Sunny: So here is what? E-Bank. So let me represent the e-bank. So this is my what? This is my eBank.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And then, yeah, you can draw it as a vertically or horizontally. One should be vertical, one should be the horizontal, because we always perform the transpose of the matrix, no, whenever we perform the dot product, okay, between two vectors. So, this is going to be what? This is going to be my one vector. Let me draw it.
Sunny: This is my one.
Sunny: Okay, and here is what? This is my… another one.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: Now, what I'll do, guys, see, here is what? This is what? This is my e-bank.
Sunny: Okay? And now what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be multiplied with the bank. This…
Sunny: And this bank, actually, it will be actually a vector, embedding only. Okay, so let me draw the…
Sunny: Embedding of this.
Sunny: Money.
Sunny: Sorry, bang.
Sunny: Getting my point? Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll do the plus, and here, again, I'll draw the same thing. So this is what is my eBank and e-grow, right?
Sunny: So, here is my e-bank vector.
Sunny: E-Bank. E means what? Embedding. Okay?
Sunny: And now, here is what? Here is my e-gro.
Sunny: So, 1, 2… Ego. Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll multiply it with the…
Sunny: embedding of the grow, okay? So this is going to be what?
Sunny: This is going to be a… embedding of Grow.
Sunny: So this is a complete representation.
Sunny: This is a complete representation of the Bengais.
Sunny: This is going to be a complete representation of the bank.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Yes? So this is going to be a complete representation of the bank.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: after the multiplication of it, right? So tell me, guys, if we are going to be multiplying this value.
Sunny: So what I'll get, guys, tell me, I will be getting a scalar value or the vector only, what I'll be getting. So here, I will be getting the scalar value, right? So it will be scale 1.
Sunny: This is going to be Scalar 2.
Sunny: And this is going to be what is scalar 3.
Sunny: You know how to multiply the two… how to multiply two vectors. Let me show you that, if you don't know that.
Sunny: I can show you over here. So let's say here is what? Here is my two vector.
Sunny: This is what? This is my…
Sunny: 1 and 2, and this is one more vector. It's going to be 3 and 4, okay? So if I want to multiply this two vectors, if I want to perform the…
Sunny: out product, how I will do that. So this is my 1 and 2, and then this is my 3 and 4. So I'll multiply this with this, and this with this, okay? So, 1, multiply 3…
Sunny: Plus 2 multiplied 4.
Sunny: Okay? 1 multiplied 3, 2 multiplied 4. Now, what will be the value? Tell me, guys, this is my A1, this is my V1, this is my A2, this is my B2.
Sunny: So what will be the multiplication? A1 multiply A2.
Sunny: And B1 multiplied B2, we can have as many as value. So, what will be the final value? The final value is going to be 11. So is it a vector value, or it is a scalar value?
Sunny: tell me, it is a scalar value. Okay. Now, over here, guys, this value, actually, this particular value, this value, it will be a scalar value.
Sunny: Don't worry, guys, I'll explain you why, how this query and key is coming, what is the concept behind it, everything I will explain you, right? Just believe on me, and understand the thing. Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll pass this particular value to the…
Sunny: softmax function, okay? This particular value, basically, we will be passing where? We'll be passing to the softmax function. You know softmax function, how does it work?
Sunny: So here, this particular value, I'll be passing where? I'll be passing to the SoftMax.
Sunny: Now, what is a concept behind the softmax function?
Sunny: It is a activation function, okay? We use it inside the neural network, right? So, we're talking about the softmax, guys, so how, basically, we calculate the value, using the softmax.
Sunny: So, see, this W1, this scalar value, this W1, how it will be calculated, this W1, using the softmax, it will be calculated like this.
Sunny: As of 1.
Sunny: divided by… E as of 1, E as of 2, and E as of 3.
Sunny: Then the W2, basically, it will be calculated like this, E, as of 2,
Sunny: SoftMix, basically, it will just give you the normalized value, okay?
Sunny: E as of 2, and E as of 3. Now, guys, W3… E… as 3, then E, As…
Sunny: 1E as 2 plus E as 3, right? So this is going to be a softmax value. This is the formula of the softmax. Now, what I'll be getting, guys, I'll be getting this W1, W2, and W3.
Sunny: Right? So I'm getting this W1, W2, and this W3. This is going to be what? This is going to be a weight. Now, this weight, basically, is going to be multiplied with someone, right? So this weight, basically, is going to be multiplied with someone. E-Money, eBank, and eGrow. So let me write over here. This weight, basically, is going to be multiplied with someone.
Sunny: So here is what? E-Money, this one.
Sunny: E?
Sunny: Bank. This is going to be what? This is going to be my bank.
Sunny: Okay? And then, this is going to be multiplied with a grow, right? So, E, grow. This one. Making sense to all of you? Are you able to understand? Now, what we will do, guys, see, this particular value are going to be at.
Sunny: Okay, all this 3 value is going to be add. And finally, whatever vector I'll be getting, so this is going to be vector of my eBank.
Sunny: The final vector, basically. And this is only called a contextual vector.
Sunny: Contextual vector. What is this called, guys? Tell me? This is only called my contextual vector, means after the self-adtention, after the self-attention, guys.
Sunny: This particular vector I'll be getting, this final vector, this particular vector, and this particular vector will be the contextual vector of the bank.
Sunny: this vector.
Sunny: And how I'm getting this vector? So this is my complete self-attention calculation. All this thing is happening inside the self-attention, actually.
Sunny: all this thing is happening inside the cell potential. Now, over here, guys, what we have to identify, we have to identify the query key and value. So, as I told you.
Sunny: As I told you guys, this thing, this, this, this one, this E and this, this is called the query, actually. This is called the query.
Sunny: This is called the query.
Sunny: Okay, and this is called the key. This is called the query, this is called the key, right? So this is… this vector, actually, it's a query vector, and it is a key vector, this particular vector.
Sunny: This particular vector is what? It's a query vector and key vector. Now, where is a value vector, guys? So, this vector, actually, this vector is called the value vector. This one. This is what? This is my value vector. This one. This is what? This is my V.
Sunny: This is what, this is my V. This is what, this is my V. So this self-attention concept, actually, it's completely based on this Q, key, Q, K, and B.
Sunny: Q, K, and B. And this Q, K, B, and this QKB is nothing, it is a transform vector, it is a transformed data, this Q, K, and B. I'll tell you what is a transformation, what is a transformed data, everything will understand.
Sunny: But guys, this is a high-level overview, like, how the self-attention is working. Now, tell me, did you get this high-level overview of the self-attention working?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no. The first phase of the self-attention is clear or not.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: It was not going to be clear, guys. In the next class, I'll clear all this thing, along with the example, okay?
Sunny: So don't worry, guys, in the next class, we are going to be complete that. Tell me,
Sunny: Tell me, guys, any doubt, anything over here?
Sunny: Right? So, this key query and value concept, I can explain you this particular concept with a dictionary example also.
Sunny: So, have you learned the dictionary, guys?
Sunny: Do you know the dictionary?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: So we're talking about the dictionary, right?
Sunny: So, see.
Sunny: Whenever we're talking about the self-attention, The self-attention.
Sunny: It is all about this.
Sunny: Q, K, and V vector. Q, K, and… V vector.
Sunny: Okay. So, I told you where this Q, K, V, and val… this… where this QKV value comes, where this QKV value comes. Now, what's the meaning of that, why it is coming that? What is the actual intuition behind it? We'll understand that. For that, I will have to give you a couple of examples.
Sunny: I have to build that storyline, right? Now, over here, guys, see, I can explain that thing with a Python dictionary.
Sunny: You know Python dictionary, right? So, let's say if I'm going to be right like this.
Sunny: A is 1, then B is 2, then C is 3. This one.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, if I have to get a value of A, how I will write that?
Sunny: I'll write like this.
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: So what is going to be output of it? The output of this particular thing is going to be what? 1.
Sunny: Tell me, yes or no.
Sunny: So, this is what, guys, this is what? This is what.
Sunny: This is my key.
Sunny: I'm going to be perform the query on top of this particular dictionary.
Sunny: And this is what, this is my value.
Sunny: So, query, query, query?
Sunny: Key… and value.
Sunny: Right? So, I'm going to be… I'm going to be use a key.
Sunny: Okay, see, just think in such a way, I'm…
Sunny: over the query, I'm going to be use a key to get my value. To get my value. The similar kind of analogy, actually.
Sunny: The similar kind of analogy, basically, it is being used inside the transformer also, in this Q, K, and B. So we have to understand that part.
Sunny: Okay, so we have to understand that particular part, and we'll understand that in the next class, guys. So, in the next class, we are going to be cover four concepts.
Sunny: The first concept is going to be a self-attention. I'll show you with the… I will extend this particular explanation again, okay, with the example.
Sunny: Then, the next is going to be a multi-attention.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Then the next is going to be a cross attention.
Sunny: cross attention.
Sunny: And then the next concept is going to be a mask attention.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: mask attention. So, these many concepts, guys, we are going to be covered inside the next class.
Sunny: So don't miss the next class, guys. It's going to be an important one. Understood? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: We can cover that, okay? We can understand that.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Okay, great.
Sunny: Fine, guys, so I think, if I'm going to be cover more than this one, then it's going to be overwhelming, and maybe you might also exhaust, you might feel exhaust.
Sunny: So, let's, do it in the next session only.
Sunny: Is it fine to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny: Okay, so just revise all the things, whatever I have explained you. This 3-4 session, this transformer session, I know, guys, it is, like, a little complex, typical, to connect the dots, basically, it's not easy, but yeah.
Sunny: You will have to do that.
Sunny: Okay, because, see, I am putting my effort, I'm trying to explain you, right, with the best impossible, with the simplest explanation, okay, with the entire derivation, but until you are not giving your efforts, your 50% efforts, this is not going to make a sense, right? This might useless in that case.
Sunny: So, to connect the dots, to revise the thing, to revise a concept, again, you will have to go through with the session, and at least you will have to watch that at 1.5x speed, and you will have to revise the core part of the video, at least.
Sunny: Killing my point?
Sunny: So please do that, guys, and in the next session, again, we'll continue from this particular part itself. So whatever explanation I have given you will carry this particular explanation only. So, for your better understanding, I can show you… see, this is the formula of the self-attention.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: So, we are also doing the same thing. If you will look into the transformer architecture, sorry, transformer paper.
Sunny: So what do we have? We have query, Key.
Sunny: So we are going to be multiplying this query and key, right? It's coming from the same vector, same vector, okay?
Sunny: This one, query and key. Then we are going to be divide with this particular value. This is, again, one more hyperparameter. We are going to be multiplied with a V. Sorry, we are passing this particular value to the softmax.
Sunny: to normalize it, and then we are going to be multiply with a V. So whatever explanation you will see in today's class, guys, it is around to that only. Again, I can explain. We have Q value, this is the vector, this is a K, so vector 1, vector 2 is going to be multiply, dot product.
Sunny: Then we are passing this value to the softmax.
Sunny: Right? We are going to be normalize it using this particular value. I will tell you that in our next class. And then finally, we have a multiplication with a V.
Sunny: Okay, so QK, first multiply that, pass to the softmax, then multiply with a V, and whatever value you will be getting, just combine all those values, add those values, and that's going to be our
Sunny: contextual vector.
Sunny: Have you learned about the showtime bidding, guys? Showtime bidding?
Sunny: Manabolata, right?
Sunny: I told you that. Instead of SOTA embedding, the embedding's going to be a…
Sunny: dynamic, actually. So how the dynamic embedding is coming? It's coming from here only, this one.
Sunny: What is the T over here? The T is nothing, it is a transpose, actually.
Sunny: transpose of the matrix. So let's say we have this matrix. This is the row matrix.
Sunny: If I wanted to convert this matrix, this A matrix, into the transpose one, if I wanted to get this 80, what I'll do, I'll convert this row matrix into column matrix. So this is the transpose of the matrix. It's the basic of the mathematics and all.
Sunny: Okay, that's it. Nothing else.
Sunny: Fine, guys. So, yeah, just believe on me, I can explain you this concept in a better way in the next class.
Sunny: And we'll wrap up then, okay?
Sunny: So, fine, guys, thank you, bye, take care, we'll cover rest of the session in the next class. And see, guys, this, theoretical session could be a little, overwhelming and a little, boring, okay, and more theoretical.
Sunny: But yeah, we'll have to bear this thing, at least for next 3 to 4 classes, okay?
Sunny: For next three to four classes, we'll have to bear that, and after that, guys, what we will do, after that, we'll enter into the practical. Got it, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Yeah, so I'm putting these notes over the GitHub. You can directly take it from there itself. So, let me keep it over there.
Sunny: Just give me a moment, guys, I'm putting an exact date. What is that date?
Sunny: 26… April.
Sunny: 2206.
Sunny: Okay, so I'll keep this one inside the specific folder.
Sunny: Guys, I uploaded the notes over the GitHub, you can check out over there, and the same will be available inside your resource section also.
Sunny: So, let me show you where you will get it.
Sunny: Here it is available, okay? This PDF.
Sunny: So you can revise all the examples and all from here itself.
Sunny: Fine, guys, I'll go for the doubt session now. If you have any sort of a doubt, you can.
Sunny: Ask me now, okay? So, we'll start the doubt session after 5 minutes. We'll take a short water break. Thank you, guys. If you don't have any doubt.
Sunny: you can, drop the session. But if you have any doubt, be here, be ready with your doubt, okay? And, you can discuss with me. Thank you, guys. Thank you, good night, bye. Okay? I'm putting a timer for 5 minutes. Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's start with the doubt session now. If you have any doubt, you can go ahead with the doubt, okay? Please raise the hand.
Sunny: And then I'll give you the excess.
Sunny: Yeah, Shiva, what's your doubt? Please go ahead with the doubt.
Shiva: Oh, yeah. Hi, Sunny. I have a question. Let me share my screen.
Sunny: Okay, you wanted to share the screen?
Shiva: Yes. Okay.
Shiva: It's coming.
Sunny: Sachin Agraval is saying this topic could have been explained in a much better logical. Yes, Sachin, we'll do that, no? Actually, see, there is a difference, Sachin. If you are there, you can talk with me. Sachin, I'm giving you the access.
Shiva: Yeah, you can see this glitch.
Sunny: Second Shiva. Sachin, you're writing something in the chat, can you please unmute yourself?
Sachin Agarwal: Yeah, that is funny.
Sunny: Yeah, such and see, actually, no, there is a difference between the recording and the live session, okay? So let's say if you're watching Chris or Udemy or any YouTube video in the recorded mode, right?
Sunny: So that might be in a sequence, because there… that is a one-way communication. One-way communication means what? One-way communication means only instructor is explaining and you are listening. Let's say if you're not able to get, you will watch the recording again, right? You will go through that again. So recording, watching recording is a one-way communication, but in live class now, it is a little different, okay?
Sunny: So, whatever you are asking, with one example and all. So, at the end, it will be connected, okay? Just leave it to me, Sachin, it will be clear. Don't worry.
Sachin Agarwal: Yeah.
Sunny: Yeah, okay.
Sunny: Did not enjoy this, that, huh? Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, Shiva, please go ahead.
Shiva: Yeah, so here I can… able to run this print, okay, for testing purpose, and after that, I ran this, right, so I got this error, import OS, and even for this, sentence transformer also, I'm getting this OS error.
Shiva: I'm not able to resolve it.
Sunny: your expected non-none time. Show me, show me your .env file. Where is your .env file?
Shiva: I'm not sure, here I have the VEMV… This one is created.
Sunny: No, no, no. See, if you haven't created .env file, then how you will be able to load the API key? Tell me.
Shiva: Okay, then, but why this is working? Means, normally…
Sunny: Lori, so what?
Shiva: No, but this one is working, right? The prints are encoding this…
Sunny: No, I'm not saying that, I'm saying, see, scroll down. What error you are getting, just read the error. What is the error? STR expected, not none time. Not none time means what? It is not getting any value from the environment variable.
Sunny: It is saying, meh STR expected karta ho lekin mujer nant type dia jaraya.
Sunny: why it is getting done type, because you haven't defined the value of the API keys, right?
Shiva: Means where I have to…
Sunny: Have you watched the session?
Shiva: ES…
Sunny: I created one .env file. Just create one .env file, do it.
Sunny: Yeah, now keep the environment… see, where you created that. I think you created it inside the ENV folder. Just keep it outside of it, okay?
Shiva: I'm just moving it.
Sunny: Yeah, moved outside.
Shiva: Yes.
Sunny: Now keep the values over here. What value you will keep over here?
Shiva: Oh, I'm not sure.
Sunny: Just a second, I'm giving you those values.
Shiva: Ew.
Sunny: I'm not giving OpenAI one, okay? Because that is a paid one. I'm giving you the rest of the value weight.
Sunny: Just a second, I am passing it inside the chat.
Sunny: You can copy it from there, okay?
Sunny: Just keep this two value here. Yeah, now go with your code. First, keep it on autosave, just do the autosave, okay.
Shiva: Oh… Yes, I saved it.
Sunny: go inside the file, Uber file option, right? That file option.
Shiva: This one?
Sunny: Left-hand side, at first place, file option is there, right? File.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: File, file, huh? Now autosave. See autosave there?
Sunny: Last… above the preference.
Shiva: Yes.
Sunny: Click on that.
Shiva: Yes, no.
Sunny: Okay, now it is saved. Now go with the file, this embedding, encoding file.
Shiva: Okay.
Shiva: Run?
Sunny: Showtime wedding file, open that, no?
Shiva: Yeah, this one, I already opened it.
Sunny: I'll open that.
Shiva: is…
Sunny: On that file, lah.
Shiva: No, I… which file… I opened it, right?
Sunny: This file only, this file, yeah, this one. Now, comment out this one line, this OpenAI API key, because we don't have OpenAI API key, no, just comment this line, the line number 3.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: Selected and commented.
Sunny: Select it, and now restart your kernel.
Shiva: Oh, complete one. VA score.
Sunny: Restart, restart option is there, no? Open a restart kernel, huh? This one.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: After that, run it again.
Sunny: Okay, now run it again.
Sunny: Run it, run it?
Sunny: Oh, see, this is working? No.
Sunny: And load your requirement.txt also. See, download the requirement.txt also, inside the virtual environment. I think you haven't done that.
Sunny: Right?
Shiva: Oh, it'.
Sunny: So whatever virtual environment you created, whatever virtual environment you created, just download the required.txt over there, okay?
Shiva: No, this one is done already, Sunny, but I'm not sure. Everything is passed in the requirement.txt.
Shiva: means I… I ran it.
Sunny: Yes, sir. Have you installed it inside the virtual environment?
Shiva: I…
Sunny: Open the terminal first.
Shiva: You know, once again.
Shiva: Yes, I opened it.
Sunny: Now activate the virtual envo… where is the terminal here? I cannot see that.
Shiva: Okay, one second, I think I have to share this one as well.
Sunny: terminal, terminal, here in VS Code, you need to open the terminal, no?
Shiva: Yes, I already opened it, but you are not able to see because of some…
Shiva: Access issue, okay, now you can see, right?
Sunny: No, not this terminal, not this terminal.
Shiva: VS Code only.
Sunny: Okay.
Shiva: I'm outside, I'm not able to fit it in within VS Code.
Sunny: Okay, just activate this… activate your virtual environment here.
Shiva: Yeah, but I need to know the path, right? So, to get that, which command… there is will be some command, right?
Sunny: There is a command now, right?
Shiva: Yes.
Sunny: See, I shared everything, Shiva. I think you haven't seen the previous classes.
Shiva: No, I tried it, actually, I opened, and everything is working, right? From yesterday only, I'm facing this issue, till earlier, right? So everything is…
Sunny: Activate the virtual environment here, go with your ENV folder, open the ENV folder in VS Code, do that.
Shiva: Yeah, I opened it.
Sunny: I cannot see that.
Shiva: which share option I need to select?
Sunny: or just…
Shiva: One second, one second, I'm sharing…
Sunny: share all the entire screen, okay? I think you are sharing a single screen only.
Shiva: Now you can say, right?
Sunny: Yeah, now do one thing, this EMV folder, go with the script.
Shiva: Ew.
Sunny: Now, here is a activate… Just window activate, no? Activate.bat. Just copy that, this path.
Sunny: Copy path.
Sunny: Copy path. Now paste it over the terminal.
Sunny: Activate it.
Sunny: This server not recognize international command. Just pass it from the ENV only.
Shiva: Okay, first I need to go to the ENV file, right?
Sunny: No, no, no, no.
Sunny: DNV script activate.bat, that's it.
Sunny: Sear, slash, slash, slash.
Sunny: env slash backslash. There, it is there, right? env scripts activate.bat.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: Hit enter.
Sunny: ENV is not there.
Shiva: Do we need to give space? No, right? Okay.
Sunny: Back… put the backslash over here.
Sunny: Hmm. Put the backslash.
Shiva: Yes, yes, it's work.
Sunny: Okay, now working, no? Now here, install the recann.txt. ubpip install hyphen at racon.txt.
Sunny: Okay, it is done now. Do one thing. Open that one. Open your VS Code.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: Now here, go with the ENV.
Sunny: This right-hand side DNV is there a kernel one, right-hand side, Uber.
Sunny: This one. Click on that.
Sunny: Oh.
Sunny: Yeah, this is fine. Now, select the first one only.
Sunny: Restart the kernel.
Sunny: Then run this prompt transformer, sentence transformer, input sentence transformer.
Sunny: What's the error that is giving you? Show me.
Sunny: dynamic link library initialization, routin fail error loading. Show me the… okay, wait just a second.
Sunny: Just copy this error, give it to me.
Shiva: I'm not able to send.
Shiva: East.
Shiva: Oh, I'm not able to paste here, I'm not sure.
Shiva: Sir, I cannot able to send… means space here.
Sunny: Wait, wait, wait, I'm checking that.
Sunny: Show me your return.txt, open that.
Shiva: Yeah, one sec.
Sunny: We're just there… I think some issue with your environment, actually.
Sunny: That's why it's not coming. Just open the terminal and write Python there.
Sunny: It's 3.11 only, no?
Shiva: Yes, yes.
Sunny: I think for this one, no.
Sunny: I created… See, do one thing. For this, for this particular.
Shiva: 3.115.
Sunny: For this 3.11, actually, I asked for the Word2Back, right? For the Word2Back practical. For this implementation, you can create an environment with 3.12, okay?
Sunny: just create one more environment over here with 3.12, install the requirement.txt over there, and then perform the… then load the model, okay? Because I think this is a water zone mismatch issue.
Sunny: We thought Jordan is…
Shiva: Too well, also, I have, actually.
Sunny: No, you will have to install this now, actually.
Sunny: You… did you install the Recon.txt here, inside this environment?
Sunny: Right? So create over here only. ENV with 3.12. Okay, one more ENV, just keep any custom name of that. Install the recon.txt inside that, and load this library. It will be working, okay?
Shiva: Oh, okay.
Sunny: Just check that and let me know, until I'm taking others out.
Shiva: Okay, okay. So, you will be connected with me, right? Later?
Sunny: Of a sprite, nozzle.
Shiva: Yeah, sure, sure, okay.
Shiva: means I'm just stuck in here, right, so I need to wait.
Sunny: Yes, yes.
Shiva: We, like, help.
Sunny: Okay, VK, what's your doubt? Mr. Irvine, VK, Anil, guys, anyone is there, please go ahead.
Mr Aravind: Hey, sorry, Sydney.
Sunny: Yeah.
Mr Aravind: Oh, I was having one doubt. Can you share your notes and, that self-attention? You have created, query and key vector, right?
Mr Aravind: So, there, I just wanted to understand.
Mr Aravind: Yep.
Mr Aravind: Right? So, that Q… Q and K. So, eBay.
Mr Aravind: money, then money plus, eBank, e-bank, that vector formation, I was having confused. I just confused. Could you please explain that one more time?
Sunny: See, I'll explain you this thing again, okay? So, as of now, I just capped it, just to demonstrate the formula, basically, just to give you that quick, intuition about the formula, okay? I'll take an example, and again, I'll come to this Q and K, because behind it, like, there is one concept which we need to understand.
Sunny: the concept of the linear transformation, right? So I'll come to that thing, and we'll explain you this part again, right? With one more example, and we can understand this in a better way, okay? Don't worry, give me one more class, your doubt will be clarified.
Mr Aravind: Oh, you were speaking about… can you just go a little bit down? Sorry.
Sunny: Hmm.
Mr Aravind: So, you were speaking about the second one, right? After that, bank equal to, you have written, one formula, W1…
Mr Aravind: star money. After that, you have written that QK, that one only, right, you're speaking of.
Sunny: No, this one, I'm saying, query and key. You will have to understand it, actually, what it is in actual, this query and key. It is a linear transformation of the same data, same word, same vector, actually. So that part I'll tell you, and I'll tell you with the same example again, okay? So just give me one more class, this is going to be clear.
Mr Aravind: Sure, sure, thank you.
Sunny: Thanks.
Anil Venkatrao: Hi, Sunny.
Sunny: Yeah, Anil, please go ahead.
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, I… I know the… whatever the explanation you have given for positional encoding, I understood that completely, but, you know, the, like, you know, small note being the position, whatever is said there, position encoding, the left… LHS, left-hand side, that PE, POS, okay, for sign, it is…
Anil Venkatrao: post comma 2i, and for percentage, post comma 2i plus 1, you explained. So, what exactly that variables means each token, like, you know, position, like girards. Can you just go to your notes, please, that part?
Anil Venkatrao: was…
Anil Venkatrao: But yeah, yeah, this one, yeah. Here, like, for position 0, right, you have 0, 1, 2 value.
Anil Venkatrao: But inside that P00, P01, P02, so these are, like, you know, like, what, like, you know, in graph, do we use somewhere, like, you know, for X minus X axis, and what exactly is that? I just want to understand the left-hand side. The right-hand side, I understand.
Sunny: You're ask… you were asking this one, right? This…
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah, exactly, exactly, yes, yes.
Sunny: This is nothing, see, this is the… just check the formula.
Sunny: What is there in the formula?
Anil Venkatrao: Yes.
Sunny: This is what? Tell me.
Anil Venkatrao: Position. Position of the, like.
Sunny: Position. Position means? Position zero means what? First word?
Anil Venkatrao: Yes.
Sunny: So, 0, 0, 0. So we are doing it for the first word. Got it?
Anil Venkatrao: Hmm?
Sunny: First word car, vector size Ki.
Anil Venkatrao: Vector size, I believe 6.
Sunny: Ma. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, correct?
Anil Venkatrao: Yeah.
Sunny: Iska index value 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Anil Venkatrao: You can…
Sunny: What is this? It's the first word. Position is first. Means zero.
Sunny: Okay. And in the vector, how many values are there? 6. 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I mean, 6 value total, right?
Sunny: So, 0, first value.
Sunny: First, second value, third value, fourth value.
Sunny: Fifth value, 6th value, that's it.
Anil Venkatrao: So, like, you know, like, for the Jira, it's explaining that 0, 0 is the… comes for that zero position value.
Sunny: 0, 0 means this value. 0, 1, this value. 02, this value. 03, this one. Means it is just telling a position of the value, at which index the value is coming. That's it.
Anil Venkatrao: Oh, okay, fair enough.
Sunny: Okay.
Anil Venkatrao: I understood, I understood. Thank you very much, Annie, for explaining.
Sunny: Because of that.
Anil Venkatrao: Bye.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, next doubt is…
Sunny: Ashish and Krishna Tilak.
Sunny: Sandeep, Rochi… guys, anyone having any doubt? Please go ahead.
Ashish Jain: Can you hear me?
Sunny: Yes, I can hear.
Ashish Jain: Yeah, Sunny, I just want to know, right, in the, in this, like, whole explanation where you explained the, Q, K, and V.
Ashish Jain: understand that query, that there is query, there is key, and there is value. So, whichever is having the highest value, that will be considered as the main query. Like, here we have considered bank. So.
Ashish Jain: I understand that we will calculate this vector for all the, all the tokens, right? Q, K, and V.
Ashish Jain: So, whichever token is having the highest weight.
Ashish Jain: That will be considered as the main query, or that will be considered as a key, like, I just want to know.
Sunny: No, no, no, no. Your understanding is wrong here.
Sunny: So, for this concept now, just give me one more class, okay? So, regarding this, you can ask me it out in the next session. Got it?
Ashish Jain: Oak, oak.
Sunny: Okay.
Ashish Jain: Okay.
Sunny: just go through with that, understand that, but yeah, whatever doubts you have, just keep it, like, on hold. We'll discuss in the next class, okay?
Ashish Jain: This is not the concept what I'm saying, that is wrong, right?
Sunny: No, no, no, this is not activity.
Ashish Jain: Okay, okay.
Ashish Jain: Thank you.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Next out.
Tilak: Hi, Sydney.
Sunny: Mmm… just a second. Yatila, please go ahead.
Tilak: Yeah, here, in a positional encoding, we are creating, cosine and sine values, right, for the location of the… I mean, for the positions.
Tilak: So, we will be having, by default, some vector size.
Tilak: input embedding. So, how these two values…
Tilak: will be equal to the vector size. Like, here we will be having… for each position, there will be two values, like a sine and cosine values, right?
Tilak: So, are we going to… Perform any calculation over to…
Tilak: Have a same vector size, or…
Sunny: Means I did not get… can you come again, please?
Tilak: So for here, as you mentioned,
Tilak: Can you open the position encoding, cosine and sine values so I can…
Tilak: So, there is a… there are each position of the token having two values, like, it's like,
Tilak: Sine value with a 0.84, and a cosine value of 0.54.
Tilak: So this represents, like, for each token, there is two values for, position encoding.
Tilak: And in a… in just you go down, there is… there we…
Tilak: Stored as, like, yeah, there.
Tilak: So, for general encoding tool.
Tilak: we will show almost, like, 6 values here, right? So that each 2 values represent 1 token.
Tilak: For the position, right?
Sunny: This… this is for one single token, this one.
Tilak: Okay.
Sunny: Actually, see, you are interpreting in a wrong way. This is for the first token. Let's say this is what? This is my…
Sunny: First word, what was my first word?
Sunny: Great, right?
Tilak: So whoa…
Sunny: So this is the encoding for the grid. This is the complete encoding for the grade.
Sunny: This is for the India.
Tilak: Okay.
Sunny: And how we calculated that? We calculated using this formula, this particular formula, this formula.
Tilak: Okay. Okay.
Sunny: So…
Sunny: This is the first token. Means second token, this one. One means second token. 0 say is start O9, right? So this is the second token, right? 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, it is index. 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sunny: Getting my point.
Sunny: Now, in pair, actually, we are going to be calculator value, so sine, cosine, Sign, cosine…
K Tarun Kumar: Science.
Sunny: cosign.
Tilak: Okay.
Sunny: point, right? So let's say, mirab word to back ka embedding size kaya hai.
Sunny: Let's say we're about 2 back cam bedding size of 500.
Sunny: Kitnei sign, kosine ke peer banning, tell me.
Tilak: It's… it will be, like.
Sunny: you know?
Tilak: Oh, okay.
Sunny: Got it.
Sunny: Divide by 2 karina dimension meh, you know?
Tilak: Yes, yes, yes.
Sunny: Got it. Agar mehera di batu backa dimension mira.
Sunny: Let's say 6, kitne sign cuosine ke peer bani haiap, batau.
Tilak: 3.
Sunny: 3 Bernay, correct. Now you got it?
Sunny: Actually, kise, kise. Jobi Amara Bohena.
Sunny: But 2 back embedding size, you know?
Sunny: They put their mind in such a way, they've created a formula in such a way that it will fit the entire intuition, the entire process, actually, right? So, let's emit a word-to-back, my word-to-back model size is 6, right? Which we took. So, how many sine-cosine pair we have?
Sunny: 3 sine, cosine pair we have.
Tilak: Yes.
Sunny: Okay, so each sine-cosine pair having two values, 1, 2, 1, 2, And one tool.
Sunny: It is equal to that.
Sunny: Right?
Tilak: Oh, okay.
Sunny: And this is our vector, actually.
Sunny: Got it? Yeah.
Tilak: I got it, yeah.
Vivek: Hey, hi, Sunny. On the same note, like, suppose, like, you were to get…
Vivek: That, encoding dimension, if it's, like, odd, like, 3, 5, 7, anything.
Vivek: And whenever we are calculating the positional encoding, so, as per the, like, formula, each sine cosine will give tier of value, correct? For the positional encoding vector.
Vivek: And our Word2Vec, it's, like, odd dimension.
Vivek: So, how it will fit that?
Vivek: So…
Sunny: Or dimension means what, sorry?
Vivek: a word to Water that… Encoding vector dimension, it's like, 7 or 5, any, any odd value.
Sunny: Okay, you are saying if it is 7 or 5. No, actually, it won't be like that. We don't keep that kind of dimension. We don't keep the order number, actually. Okay.
Sunny: Let's say you are saying, a B2 mirror dimension 6.
Vivek: Correct.
Sunny: This is the 6th dimension. Now, let's emit a model dimension to the 7, 9…
Sunny: 11, something like that. Now, how that same vector positional encoded vector is being created?
Vivek: Yes.
Sunny: This is your question, no? Now, just take the same dimension, let's say you are taking 7. What is the formula over here?
Sunny: Let's calculate over here only. Let's say the dimension is 7 over here. Instead of 6, we are taking 7.
Sunny: So, what will be the I-value? We are going to be calculate the range. The range, basically, is going to be 0 minus 7 by 2 minus 1,
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: No, zero.
Sunny: This is going to be 3.5 minus 1.
Sunny: 3.5 minus 5, 2.5.
Sunny: Now, 0 to 2.5. This is the range, actually.
Vivek: So, there is any concept of 4.5 in the range?
Sunny: 2.5… sorry, 3.5, no, it will come 3.5, no, this divide, right?
Sunny: So this range will become 0 to 2.5. Now, just think over here. It is a whole number, complete number.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Right? This is not a complete number. So, technically, mathematically, it's not possible, actually. So, we never keep this particular value. We don't keep… we don't take this value, actually.
Vivek: There's the restriction? Like, we cannot take odd value for the, like.
Sunny: No, we cannot take the odd value according to this calculation. Got it?
Vivek: No, no, there's two things, like, one is, like, work together, whenever we are going for the encoding. So, in that encoding,
Sunny: In that encoding, actually, we won't take the odd number, odd vector number, actually.
Vivek: There, there is the restriction.
Sunny: Oh, correct.
Vivek: Understood.
Vivek: And, in the, like, last part, like,
Vivek: like, we are thinking that, like, KD, Blue, and Key. What is the context of that, like, KD and, means, in terms of the…
Sunny: I will understand, sir, in the next class, okay? Just give me one more class for this concert, I'll clarify that, okay? Don't worry.
Vivek: I'm not asking the concept, I'm asking just the context, like, what is the context of that, query, and what.
Sunny: Context, basically, is what, now, see? Context is, let's say… This is my… Sentence.
Sunny: Okay, so what I'll do, basically, I'll transform this particular sentence in such a way that it's going to be play a role of the query.
Sunny: then key, then value. Means, what it is doing now, it is doing a…
Sunny: Query, okay, with this particular key.
Sunny: is going to be generate some value, and then finally, this value is going to be multiplied with this value, V. Means what we are doing, actually, this vector bank we have, right? So, iskam linear transformation karte hain. Matlav, knowledge kum spread karte hain.
Sunny: Okay? Knowledge kum is stretch karte, actually, not a spread, stretch karte hain.
Sunny: Us knowledge ko stretch karke, uske? Like, what we do. Us knowledge ko stretch karke ham final, us se context drive karte hain, you know? Tohis merma bank hai. Meiska linear transformation karunga bhi kise hotay de k hotay hai, ja se meerpa banker vector hai. Tohamnik metrics lia.
Sunny: random weights hai. Toh iste mujek cub media taye.
Sunny: Premier possible core vector,
Sunny: same vector bank wala, e-bank.
Charles Fon: Hello, sir, English, please. English, English, please.
Sunny: So this is what is my E bank vector. E-bank vector, E bank vector, right? So I'm going to be multiplied with WQ, WK, and WV, right? This one. If I'm going to be multiplied with this one, I got this Q. This is the transform vector, this Q.
Sunny: means this is my E vector. I'm going to be multiplied with this weights. This weights, actually, it's a learnable parameter inside the transform, inside the self-attention architecture, okay? And with that, we are getting this cumul club. We have stretched the knowledge of this bank vector.
Sunny: in the form of Q, where I'm going to be multiplied with this K, okay? So I can convert into some information, and that, again, I'm going to be multiplied with this B. I'm getting a final contextual vector. The concept is similar to that. So I'll take one example. With that, you will get a clearer understanding, okay? I will take a very basic analogy.
Sunny: With that, I will try to explain you this entire thing. Got it?
Yash Shukla: I was a singer yesterday.
Sunny: Just a second.
Sunny: Who is there? Yes, Shukla, right?
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir.
Yash Shukla: Sir, in the positional coding vector, while you were explaining the concept, you told about that, the context is such a way that everything remains in sequence. For example, if you go to the upper example in the slides.
Yash Shukla: Though…
Yash Shukla: Vector was coming, one side 0101 for sine course, another for another, you know, token, it was coming 0.84, 0.54, something like that.
Yash Shukla: So, with this token, or with this vector numerical values, can we also say that the sequence or the order of the words will also remain preserved.
Yash Shukla: So, we can say it is or not.
Yash Shukla: Like, for example, today is, a hot day, so we can say the encoding, vector encoding after positional encoding after all the numerical calculations at that stage. The vectors will come in such a way that the words will remain in sequence, their context will never lose.
Sunny: Is it…
Yash Shukla: True or not?
Sunny: Yes, it is true, Anthony.
Yash Shukla: Okay, Jenny.
Sunny: This is what I was saying. This vector.
Yash Shukla: in particular.
Sunny: vector.
Sunny: This positional encoded vector, no?
Yash Shukla: Hmm.
Sunny: It will be added in our min vector, this E1.
Sunny: Whatever final vector will get this X1.
Sunny: Okay, we are going to be using it inside our self-attention, and this vector And this X2 vector, basically.
Sunny: Okay, whenever…
Yash Shukla: According to you on this, we will say linear transformation.
Sunny: Yo, Sorry?
Yash Shukla: You wanted to say that after getting this vector, we'll do self-attention and then linear transformation, which we'll tell you next class.
Sunny: Correct, correct. This self-attention would be over here. This data will be going inside the self-attention block, and it will preserve the order, because this positional encoding we are adding over here, okay?
Yash Shukla: Okay, so that is the significance, if we can say the value of, when the value is lying between the sine and cos periodically, so to maintain the context and the order.
Sunny: Correct, right. Now you got it, actually.
Yash Shukla: Okay. And, sir, regarding this same concept, for example, if we have more than one sentence, and the tokens are repeating, for example, the world today is repeating twice or thrice, so will it affect or not affect the whole context or the numerical calculations?
Sunny: It won't affect, because again, today is coming with respect to what, so it look into that, actually. Okay, so that's a benefit of the self-attention, it takes the dynamic context of that particular word, right?
Sunny: In which context it is coming.
Yash Shukla: Okay, so, there is no, relation with multiple words coming more times, the context will remain preserved.
Sunny: Correct, correct, right.
Yash Shukla: Thank you, sir. The previous class was really great.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, sir, thank you.
Charles Fon: Okay, can I go ahead, Zane?
Sandeep Saboo: Sorry, there's Sandeep here. So…
Sunny: Yasundi.
Sandeep Saboo: Basically, so this, vectors that we are using for each word, right?
Sandeep Saboo: These are going to be extended if the size of the original statement is longer, right?
Sandeep Saboo: And then it will have to position itself when… so, see, I'm talking about the processing of these vectors, so in this case, there is just two words, right? Create and India.
Sandeep Saboo: So we have, like, 6 vectors for each one, where we are, documenting the sine and cosine values. Now, this will be processed how, like, before passing… before passing it on through the self-attention.
Sandeep Saboo: Oop.
Sunny: Sorry, I didn't get that.
Sandeep Saboo: So basically, these 6 vectors for each word, right?
Sandeep Saboo: Like, 6 values from sine and cosine for each word that we have.
Sandeep Saboo: How it is going to be processed?
Sunny: Earth.
Sandeep Saboo: Yeah, yeah, so, like…
Sandeep Saboo: We have this great and India, right? So, on the left side, we have 010101 for grade, and…
Sandeep Saboo: 0.84.54 for India, okay?
Sandeep Saboo: So, how this will be passed on to the self-attention there, like, in terms of, you know.
Sunny: We'll add it inside the embedding, our main embedding vector, and we'll pass it inside the self-attention.
Sandeep Saboo: Okay, and these will contain all the values that we are, registering here, like, all the 6 values.
Sandeep Saboo: The same percentage for each row.
Sunny: Yes.
Sandeep Saboo: Okay.
Sunny: this vector is going to be contained that, okay? In peer, actually, we are going to be calculate that value.
Sunny: So let's say we have a 6-dimensional embedding vector, then 3 pairs of the sine and cosine, actually, okay?
Sandeep Saboo: Hmm.
Sunny: Yeah.
Sandeep Saboo: Me too.
Charles Fon: When I go ahead, sir.
Sunny: Yeah, Charles, you can go ahead.
Charles Fon: Remember yesterday that as he… as he struggled to run, that court, it's no more running.
Sunny: Which code? Sorry?
Charles Fon: I was complaining that the… my code of the last… last week.
Charles Fon: It's complaining that my, my…
Sunny: the IQ.
Charles Fon: Yeah, that's true.
Charles Fon: One.
Charles Fon: See?
Sunny: What is the error?
Charles Fon: You know,
Charles Fon: But when you put on the ChatGPT, it's telling you that the API key is wrong.
Sunny: Mmm, so generally…
Charles Fon: I don't.
Sunny: be like, you know.
Charles Fon: I tried to generate another AP, I keep putting still complaining that's wrong.
Charles Fon: Is it API?
Sunny: GPT… in GPT API key, you will have to put some money, then only it will give you the answer. Did you put some money there?
Charles Fon: No, I don't have any… I don't have any money there.
Sunny: Then it will not work. This is which one? It is an OpenAI one or Google one?
Charles Fon: They open one.
Sunny: Show me the entire… scroll down, show me the… it's a Google one, right? Which you are showing to me, correct?
Sunny: Show me the complete error, just move the right-hand side, this Google Generative AI, the last part of it. Yeah, scroll down, and move the right-hand side, that.
Charles Fon: Yeah, I think that's all.
Sunny: Scroll down, sir, scroll down, please.
Sunny: scroll down.
Sunny: Scroll down with Nietzsche, scroll down, scroll down.
Sunny: Down, down, down, down, or right-hand side, move the right-hand side, this cursor. Show me the exact error.
Charles Fon: Mattress, it doesn't… Allow me to go right-hand side.
Charles Fon: It doesn't… It doesn't have… it doesn't have any…
Sunny: Give me this.
Sunny: system.
Charles Fon: Okay.
Charles Fon: Okay, considering… gee…
Sunny: API key is not valid.
Sunny: Your KPI is not valid.
Sunny: Where is the .env? Show me the .env file.
Charles Fon: Visible.
Charles Fon: This one, yeah. That one.
Sunny: Google APIQ.
Sunny: You kept that, see, different name, Google API key. Show me this file once, sorta embedding, open that.
Sunny: I'll scroll up.
Sunny: Google API… scroll up, scroll up.
Sunny: It's working now, see? What you're getting here. Show me that error, scroll up, show me that error.
Charles Fon: The arrows, yeah.
Sunny: Wait.
Sunny: Model.
Sunny: And this hugging face is working now?
Sunny: Where you set the environment variable.
Sunny: Google… over the Google key?
Sunny: See, what you are setting here? Google API key.
Sunny: Did I shone you like this?
Sunny: All the value should be in caps, right?
Charles Fon: What's the value.
Sunny: Yeah, all the, like, characters should be in caps, so it should be Google API key. All the characters should be in capital letters. It is a wrong one. That's why you're getting a wrong API key error there.
Sunny: So just correct, just…
Charles Fon: I cannot change it. I cannot change it because it was, it was, like you said, don't…
Sunny: don't go with a ChetC, just use some of your brain also. I share all the code and all everything, right? So why you are not using that reference? First of all, tell me.
Charles Fon: Now, remember, it was their capital letter. When you complain that, it's because I put a capital letter, I changed back to small letters. It was capital letter before.
Charles Fon: Smell will change it.
Charles Fon: Why was he complaining that the key's wrong?
Sunny: Don't put the capital letter and run it again, it will be working, okay? Do it, please.
Sunny: Restart the kernel, and run it again. It'll be working.
Sunny: Yeah, until next out, anyone having any thoughts?
Ruchi S: Sonny, I have a dog.
Sunny: Yeah, Roshi. Please go ahead.
Ruchi S: So just, I want to know, I know you're gonna explain this in the next class, but, like, the e-bank, like, the query and the key, I just wanted to know, like, why the first vector is a 1 across 3 vector, and the next one is a 3 cross 1 vector.
Sunny: Just an example, ma'am, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay.
Ruchi S: And, like, why do we use sine function first, and why do we use second, I mean, the second function, the second position for, I mean, the next,
Ruchi S: Like, if you have to create a next thing, we use the cosine, like, is there a significance behind it, like, using sine first, or it's just the form?
Sunny: Yes, it is from the research paper only. In whatever way they have used in a research paper, we are using in the same way, actually.
Ruchi S: Okay, yeah, I think I'm okay.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Guys, even Yash is also with me. If you have any doubt, you can join this link, okay? So, it might save your time.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Yeah. Yeah, please go ahead, Vishnu.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah. Hi, Sunny, I have a question you might have already told, just, I mean, recollecting thing.
vishnuvardhan kandati: one page of document that I am chunking, and I'm doing, like, embedding, and then I'm doing, like, everything. So, just think about it. So, in that process, when you say, like, six-dimensional, that is a research paper, they took, like, a six-dimensional, vector. So, how…
vishnuvardhan kandati: I mean, if I have a one-page document and have, like, each para as, like, a one chunk I am considering, and I am doing, like, everything, just think about it. So, in that case, how many words in the each chunk is considered, like, those many, embeddings, or, like, total embeddings, how many, words I am using for this total,
vishnuvardhan kandati: paper, I mean, those many embeddings we will be, using here. How it works? Can you give me a little better idea on that?
Sunny: Sorry, sir, I'm, like, a little confused. What you are asking, I didn't get.
vishnuvardhan kandati: So, we are taking a 6-dimensional array, right? I mean, 6-dimensional vector, for our examples, and also, like, researchers also, they took 6-dimensional array.
Sunny: No, no, no, in this case, they didn't take the sixth dimension, sir. Who said you?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
Sunny: 5.2, actually.
Sunny: 5 or 2 dimension was there in the research paper.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay, okay. Suppose…
vishnuvardhan kandati: If I have, one document, I am doing, like, embeddings for all the, words in that document. So, I am dividing in a chunk. I mean, each chunk is, like, one para is like a chunk. So, fixed chunking, I'm applying. Just think about it. So, my question is, so, how many, dimensions that we'll consider? So, it depends on how many tokens.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Or is it, like, how many,
Sunny: No, no, sir, no. See, you are interpreting in a wrong way, completely.
Sunny: Actually.
vishnuvardhan kandati: John, welcome.
Sunny: Embedding… that is a one thing. One part.
Sunny: Okay, and this… using this model, right, creating this model for generating the embedding and all, that's a one thing.
Sunny: Okay, so don't mix that part.
Sunny: The embedding chunky you are learning with respect to RAG.
Sunny: Getting my point. Okay, so that is a different thing.
Sunny: If you wanted to regulate that value, chunk embedding and all, embedding number and all, so you will have to train the model from scratch for that.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
Sunny: kind of model.
Sunny: Right? Okay. But there, you cannot, like, connect the same concept. Okay, if I'm doing a chunking, if I have a token, then what will be the dimension? And no. There, we have a straightforward SOTA model, LLM model, you are using that, you are converting the data into the embedding, whatever dimension you will get, you will get from that model. But if you wanted to change the dimension of the model itself, if you want to regulate that value, you will have to go inside the architecture.
Sunny: There, you… itself, you will have two.
Sunny: do that. Getting my point?
Sunny: Okay. So, don't mix both the concepts. Here, we are learning everything from scratch. How the model and all, everything have been created, this embedding model. Those, actually, it's a different thing, right? So don't combine it.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Suppose I have, like, one page of, I mean, words, so that I am… want to train my model, or, I mean, I want to, train, from the starting, like, I mean, from scratch. So, in that case, how it will happen? Just, can you…
Sunny: Pre-processing, you will have to do the proper pre-processing. First, you will read the data, you will clean the data, then you will do the tokenization of the data, okay, then position encoding will be created with that layer, right? And like that, the thing will be happen. Everything will happen from scratch only at that place, okay?
vishnuvardhan kandati: As per the, vectors, like, how we'll decide there? I mean, if it is, like, a one-page document with, 100 posts.
Sunny: No, sir, it… you don't decide based on the page, actually. That's what I'm saying.
Sunny: Okay, that is a different thing. That is a hyperparameter of the neural network of the cell potential layer and all.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
Sunny: We are misinterpreting the concept, actually.
Sunny: Combining everything. You have some knowledge of the embedding rag and all, you are just combining that knowledge over here. It's not like that. Here, if you're going to train this model, you have to pre-process everything from scratch, actually. Creating model, choosing layer and all, everything there. Got it.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay, can you give a little brief, understanding? I mean, maybe, like, I mean, to fix my understanding, I mean, you think, like, I mean, I have, like…
Sunny: First, what is your doubt? I'm not able to get it clearly, actually.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Just a sec.
Sunny: Let me share the screen, I can write over here.
Sunny: Dia, tell me what you wanted to ask.
vishnuvardhan kandati: So, we took 6 dimension here, I mean, vector, if you think, like.
Sunny: Wait, wait, sir, wait.
Sunny: Yeah, tell me.
vishnuvardhan kandati: We have, like, a six-dimension, vector we took as, for our example here, in.
Sunny: Oh, okay, 6 dimension vector, okay.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Can you, give me a little idea? I mean, is there any…
vishnuvardhan kandati: base for that, or is it just generally you took, like, I mean, that is the first question I have.
Sunny: Look, this is… like, I've just shown you the example, okay, how I can take the 512 dimension versus 024 dimension for the calculation. Will I be able to draw the 512 dimension over here, like this?
vishnuvardhan kandati: No, that is what my question… okay.
Sunny: what I'm saying now. I just took it to explain you the thing, that's it.
vishnuvardhan kandati: There is no basis. I mean, you just took, like, I mean, for,
Sunny: Yeah, I just took to explain you that concept, that's it.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay, that makes sense, that is what my question… okay, okay.
vishnuvardhan kandati: So, and if I have, like, I mean, one sentence with, 10 words or, 3 votes, does it make any difference? I mean, that is what my other question…
Sunny: 10 words…
Sunny: No, as many as words you can take. These words does not depend on dimension. This is coming, the dimension is coming from the model. I think you haven't seen my previous sessions.
Sunny: Right? So there, actually, we have trained one word-to-back model.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yes, yes.
Sunny: So if we have a sentence with 50 words, 10 words, 20 words, with every word, basically, whatever word we have, every word, basically, it's coming in a fixed dimension only now, right?
vishnuvardhan kandati: So…
Sunny: In sentence, if you have 10 words, 3 words, it's not affecting this dimension. No, not at all. It is directly coming from this trained model.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay, so that model, how many orders that they are taking for the training, and how many dimensions they are fixing there, so that is the base.
Sunny: Correct. From here only, from this model only, this dimension is coming, okay?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Okay.
vishnuvardhan kandati: That makes sense. And, Sunny, another one is, like, that support thing that I was talking, when you get a chance, can you give the contact.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, I'll check that part, okay? Don't worry, sir.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, yeah, sure.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Because you will be busy, I don't know, like, I mean, how to connect to you, only, like, this doubt session I'm getting, so…
Sunny: No, no, no worries, I'll check once, and I'll reply you back, okay?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, sure, son.
vishnuvardhan kandati: Yeah, and also, fourth thing, last thing, I mean, I will finish, like, you… when you are explaining with that, board, so it is taking time, right? You are explaining very well, but somehow, like, I mean, the total concepts to cover, it is taking much time on typing and everything. Is there any presentation would make more sense? I mean, you will… you can more concentrate and give, like.
vishnuvardhan kandati: a better idea when you're explaining, rather than that, typing there. So, would it make any sense?
Sunny: No, I create the slides only like this, so if I have to create any presentation, no, I'll keep it there, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny: Otherwise, I'll be writing most of the thing, wherever I have to write, got it?
vishnuvardhan kandati: Sure, Sam, yeah, thank you. That's all, Sam, yeah.
Sunny: Thank you.
manish pandey: Fair enough.
Sunny: Oh, yes, yeah, Manish, please go ahead with it.
manish pandey: Hi, Sunny. Just one question I have. So, basically, we were adding positional vectors to the embedding vectors.
manish pandey: So, will that not change the meaning of the embedding? Because we're changing the values now.
Sunny: No, it will not change, actually, it will just add some numbers.
Sunny: And it is, like, telling the sequence, okay? Something will be added in the vector, that's it.
manish pandey: Okay, like, suppose cat has some embedding, and now if we add a position vector to it, that vector value…
Sunny: That is going to be a small value, okay? So it will not impact much, actually. The major shift will not be there in the vector.
manish pandey: Okay, okay. And also, one thing, like, when we are running a prompt on ChatGPT or Claude, suppose we give a prompt of 10 or 20 lines, so is it taken as a single corpus, a single sentence, and that whole processing is done the same way that you told us, or is it, like, sentence by sentence, it breaks up, breaks it in?
Sunny: would be there now, so it takes the entire sentence, it tokenizes the data into converts into the embedding, and then model is processing that, and then you are getting the answer in the form of words, actually. Same words.
manish pandey: So the position encoding will happen for the whole prompt.
Sunny: Same, same, sort of, same.
manish pandey: Okay, okay, got it, got it. Thank you, thank you, that's…
Sunny: Next out is…
Krishna: Honey, can you hear me?
Sunny: Here, Krishna, please go ahead.
Krishna: There are a couple of those, but one is related to the last slide, which you said you will cover in the next class, so I would hold it for the next class.
Krishna: So, another thing, let's say we have a sentence of, 10 words, and
Krishna: We got the, positional, positional embedding vector.
Krishna: So let's say there is other sentence in the, paragraph, which has the 10… which also has the 10 words.
Krishna: So, in both the scenarios, the positional vector will be the same, right? Because,
Krishna: The vector will be the same.
Krishna: Because the vector is not dependent on the context of the votes, it's just dependent on the number of votes and all stuff.
Krishna: So, it will be the same vector in both the case, right? That's my question.
Sunny: Yeah, that would be same.
Sunny: Positional encoding, basically, it is, like, it is not included in the training, actually, right?
Sunny: So, while we are… it is a part of the pre-processing of the… it is part of the pre-processing, actually, okay? So, let's say if you're passing any sentence, if it is generated, it is generated, that's it.
Sunny: So, it is not included in the training, not in the model, okay? So, it's a part of the pre-processing of the data, that's it.
Krishna: Okay, got it.
Krishna: So, when we do the… when we do these, transformation… sorry, this encoding on,
Krishna: Our custom data, custom model.
Krishna: Toto.
Krishna: Additional encoding vector which we are talking in this class, so it will be the same for all the, sentences which have 10 words.
Sunny: Yes. All the sentence means what? See, let's say, what you are asking.
Sunny: You're asking that, let's say I've given one sentence.
Sunny: Inside that sentence, we have 5 words.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Related to the 5-word, let's say the 5-word is, I, me, that, okay, buy.
Sunny: Alright, so this is the 5 words.
Sunny: Now, you are saying, with respect to that, the position encoder is generated.
Sunny: Correct?
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Now, if the… Second sentence is coming.
Sunny: Second sentence, sentence 2. Now, inside that, we have 10 words.
Sunny: Now, inside this standard also, let's say we have an eye. So, for this i, this vector only being used, or the new vector will be created? This is your question, na?
Krishna: No, no, no, it's… that's not my question. Let's say if sentence 2 also has 5 words.
Sunny: Hmm.
Krishna: Let it be a different sentence or sentence altogether, but it has 5 words.
Sunny: Okay, let's say the 5 words, I'm writing, 5 words.
Sunny: 5 words could be, let's say, A, B, C, D, or E, okay?
Krishna: So, in this scenario, a conditional vector, a traditional, yeah, the positional encoding thing which we are getting, will be the same in both the case, right? Because
Krishna: The vector will be created based on number of tokens in the sentence. It doesn't.
Sunny: No, no, no, this will be the different, no? Because this is a different sentence, it's a different sentence, actually.
Sunny: So first, this sentence will be passed. So, to preserve the sequence of this sentence, this vector will be created.
Sunny: Correct. This is a different one. This sentence will be passed.
Sunny: Okay, now the preserve the sequence of this particular sentence, this vector will be created.
Sunny: So at both time, let's say this is… we are passing at timestamp 1, this we are passing at timestamp 2.
Sunny: Okay, now this vector is being created. Now, what will be the value of this vector? Just as your question. It would be similar to that only, right? Yes. So the first vector will always… will be that one only. The second vector again will be the same one. The third again. Same. The value would be same over here, actually.
Krishna: Yeah, yeah, that's my question, because it doesn't depend on the context of the sentence.
Sunny: No, it will not.
Krishna: capability.
Sunny: This value only will be coming over here, this one.
Sunny: Same variety. Because position to, same here, no, let's say agar meh, if I'm going to be calculated for this particular position, so it's a zero.
Krishna: Exactly.
Sunny: right? So what this will come? Like, this 010101 only, no?
Krishna: Right, right, right.
Sunny: It would be same, actually.
Krishna: Yeah, yeah, this is my question. And one small correction in the, notes which you have written.
Krishna: Somewhere it is repeated sign in both the cases. Can you scroll repeat?
Krishna: Where you explained self-attach.
Krishna: Scroll to…
Krishna: One more step, one more page.
Krishna: Perfect.
Krishna: So we have… yeah, here, for I2.
Krishna: Yeah, yeah.
Krishna: You have written sign of,
Krishna: But both the ones you have written sign of the formula should be caused right to the second one.
Sunny: Oh, okay, I think…
Krishna: people in.
Sunny: It's going to be a cost, sorry, sorry, sorry, I written it by mistake, maybe.
Sunny: So it's going to be a cost. Yeah, thank you, I will correct in the notes also, okay?
Krishna: Yeah, yeah, thank you. Yeah, this is the thing. Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, thank you, sir. Your next stop is…
Sunny: Guys, if you're done, you can, lower the hand, okay?
Sunny: Okay, Utkrush, what do you doubt?
Utkarsh Pagare: Hi, Cindy. Dotin dots, yeah.
Utkarsh Pagare: Pele, let me start from… From the embedding,
Utkarsh Pagare: apne World2VEC. apne walasar ki, World2VEC will be… Untrained one, right?
Utkarsh Pagare: Yep, untrained AI, that means neural network must be weights in AI, weights in AI, so how, how it is creating, a vector, embedding.
Sunny: Random bits tohogano, bellibranate, tos mein kust random bits to dalty, no?
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, but without trained model comes a concepti ni salami, right? Is it already trained, but we are not fine-tuning it?
Sunny: aapko, kise.
Sunny: Abhi just say, malumene neural network banaya.
Utkarsh Pagare: Hmm.
Sunny: Take care.
Sunny: a neural network in a bandwid.
Sunny: Just a second, let me clarify this doubt, I'll come to you, okay?
Sunny: Lakshmi, you are there, correct?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Yes, Sonny.
Sunny: Yeah, I'll come too.
Sunny: So, this is the neural network.
Sunny: Take care.
Sunny: Obi neural network mein banaya, bhes me kittenweights, bataya.
Sunny: 4, 2, 3…
Sunny: Let's say 12 weights over here, okay? 3 into 2, 3 into 1 is equal to kittner, 3 over, right? 3 weights are there.
Utkarsh Pagare: Hmm.
Sunny: Tell me 12 weeks. Weight so initialized karang yan. Sojo pele weight sum karte ham, random initialization hota wait ka.
Sunny: Or we could skush formulas, you can check out in the prerequisite, I think. Krista has explained that, right?
Sunny: So, job biom data pass current A is messy. This is my first iteration.
Sunny: COVID training nahi kuch nahi. Data tohas hoga yan se, poga kin.
Sunny: A data vector, various metrics, multiply Hoga, weight matrix,
Sunny: output genera.
Sunny: So, data be here, weights be here, output be RIA account who you are training.
Sunny: Now you're not reading output Y rhino, but…
Sunny: Toh, yehi ahai, matla bahap hai kona lookup lagadia, just say number get… just say number line kelia.
Sunny: wo self-attention toh use kar rahin, ha? Final training ke liya. Self-attention wo use kar rahin, final context nakal ke liya. If your fire and neural network may be dulled rahin. Toh ismodo ko train karke wo kahi kar lege.
Sunny: Essa.
Sunny: Is model koon trained kiata, Google varone pele kiata, doajar the data per train kar diyata, Google Newspe, bohata bhai de kumne hai neural network trend kartia bitung vertu bagwale embedding Janet karloh.
Sunny: pre-trained nahi, kisi data peh, passa sa model lagai, random beit keisa initialize karke, person kuto ye vector chai, unkoto ye number chai, unke number milga, self-attention sa process karke, neural network sa process karke, contextual embedding, genit karling, that's it. Okay aka.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Toh, your trade model nahi, Amara data bus, first iteration Majara, yes.
Utkarsh Pagare: Oh, okay.
Sunny: Okay.
Utkarsh Pagare: Got it.
Sunny: imagine karna sequa, matap concept sam jo feri imagine karo chija ko, skull lika karu. Apan ka karte ko aapna meza suna, ekbar socha, nahya hai semaj mein wok gaya concept. Maybe agar aap out bin ni poster dawhalay jyata.
Sunny: Toh isli haula imagination power akan ko strong karna barte hai. Tula sa deep majanek lia. Tap chijo ko socho sam joh, paper, paddraw karo, kush se bana, toh chijay ayangi samaj mein. Got it?
Utkarsh Pagare: Got it, okay. Second note is, up here is slide arch here only.
Utkarsh Pagare: Ismael, after E of money, though, I have one in, yellow color, and another one in, I think blue color.
Utkarsh Pagare: Are those 2E of, money same? Yeah, here.
Utkarsh Pagare: the key.
Sunny: is eco ye w, QC multiply karongwa.
Sunny: transform okaye vector milie ha.
Sunny: Q vector milai ka, ye see vector oga, isi bank vector oga. Aur mein WQ ko, agar mein E money se ha, sorry, yeah, e money seh wokarunga multiply. Keseh formula drive kiagaya hai, aya hai.
Sunny: Ek level of intuition aur dunga, to next class may chich cover jayki, okay? Acha se aajaya, samaj mein, jaza pojitsa and coding aake. Got it?
Utkarsh Pagare: Perfect.
Utkarsh Pagare: Third, last question,
Utkarsh Pagare: is, Abhi Ma, right now, when you were explaining, my X statement, X sentence ksapsehata.
Utkarsh Pagare: Kya is self-attention works across the sentence as well, because Ajab explained case, self-attention given, so a sentence pohi, apne kudsahi compare ka, and then, E is 3 case workshop. But suppose there are two sentences, price is 10,000, it has to be paid in advance.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, price is 10,000, and then it has to be paid. So, it matlab johuah, is basically price ke barre mehi bath hooraya.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, this self-attention work across the sentence as well. price is equal to abjab weight bananai, placing a W price into, price plus, W is into, into is plus something something as a abjo.
Utkarsh Pagare: a linear Johopnek, equation lekhiti.
Utkarsh Pagare: Across the sentence, be like, just take sentence clii, self-attention. Price is $10,000.
Sunny: uskely rahiga SR.
Sunny: Let's say agariq sentence meh 10,000 nahi agar 1 lakh tokens, toh 1 lakh kelei, same process Ura hogampe.
Sunny: That's all.
Utkarsh Pagare: Got it. A little bit, but, idea, halka, kalagrak, that means, apologies.
Utkarsh Pagare: price ka weight, you have a price equal to jumelikunga, that will be written basis weight of all the words multiplied by words, right?
Utkarsh Pagare: That's it.
Sunny: nahy ho.
Sunny: Okay, mother, let's say aapne 10,000 DIYK sentence mein, about 10,000 dusare sentence mein kahi aata hai. Uska meaning dusare sentence mein ka yatha hai. Hana? Toh, maybe, woke capture na karpay, ko, ki aapne segregate kar dia, ha dita ko batches meh diraiyo.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay.
Sunny: proper context length deni berthi ham ko. Jase, kitne tokens per train kar rah, egg sentence ka length amur auga.
Sunny: 100 tokens, 200 tokens, 500 tokens, asah. Jada said, Asa.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay.
Sunny: But ahde ko achkal ke jo model hai, na, wo islei samajpatne hai, kyu ki unki training thori different tari k se holy hai.
Sunny: I'd love…
Sunny: concept same use UI, lekin training different tari k seh. Usme kya kartne hale, pre-train karte hain. Pre-training mein next token prediction karke samja dahi model, ko ka sa language otay hotai. Supervised tuning kar use keeper.
Sunny: Asa, toho, actually, mein training through a different hai. ULM field research paper ko per die, mein aapseh research paper share kyata, us se samaj mein aajaya aap po.
Sunny: Okay.
Utkarsh Pagare: Got it. So, Sunny, Jo, right now, aap jo battare, abhi aap kamku yeh batare usi data case flow sa hai in encoder and decoder.
Sunny: se chalti hai.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, so, yeah, right now, apne, working bata. Jab meruku, suppose if I'm using GPT or any other thing.
Utkarsh Pagare: wo already trained, that just wo… first embedding jo create kar raha jo web, GPT kahoga. Wo trained wo hai untrained galaiga.
Sunny: To look up hai, only lookup.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, very random pushbijandra karega, right?
Sunny: Attention mein essa.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay. So, harbahar aap jab chai GPT use karaoke, tohurant, wohi same sentence ka wo kuch alag vector genera because don't place pe, aapki gesna kuch alag weights honege random weights, amare case me a lag random weights holy. Correct.
Sunny: initial phase. wo train model mein nahi atay hai.
Sunny: I saw.
Sunny: data ko preprocess kar dia esta.
Utkarsh Pagare: Pardon.
Sunny: So, main kamoga wa tenshan or baki ke layers mein hota.
Utkarsh Pagare: perspective.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, sure, Sunny. Thank you so much for it, Sunny.
Sunny: Yeah, think.
Sunny: Yeah, Lakshmi, please go ahead.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Hi, Sunny, sorry if I was disturbing earlier, I was testing and it got unmuted.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Okay, so my first question is, like you were talking about, sending the input tokens in parallel. So, this parallel depends on the GPT compute that, the system has, or is it the architecture that
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Says how many tokens we can send at a time.
Sunny: We can pass, like, as much as tokens. See, every model nowadays is having their own context length, right? So, at least we can pass that much of token altogether.
Sunny: So, if we're saying, GPT is having 128K token length, so we can pass 128K, like, we can pass that sentence, which is containing at least 128K token, okay? So…
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Yeah.
Sunny: So that… every LLM is having their own context length in terms of token, and we can pass that much of token in one single sentence, and it can process in parallel, actually.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: But isn't that, the token or context window more about remembering than Processing tokens in parallel.
Sunny: No, no, no, remembering means what?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: the memory can handle at a time. Like, the context windows kebab, it'll forget some of the…
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: previous discussion.
Sunny: Context, length, context, window.
Sunny: See, don't merge all those things, right? Context length, you are saying, means how much context we can pass in one single shot.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Context window, context lens. If you're asking in that purpose, yes, we can pass, like, whatever context lens the modder is claiming, actually, right? That much data can process parallelly. Now, memory part, right? So that is a memory only, just don't combine both thing over here, okay?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Oh.
Sunny: Yeah.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Yeah, yeah, Sunny. So, yeah, another one about adding and concatenation. So, since here we are adding in the entire architecture, if we… instead, if we do concatenation, irrespective of the hardware that we have, will we be expecting the
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Same kind of results that we're getting now, or is it more of experimentation, where we have to…
Sunny: Why going for the concatenation?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: like, I'm just wondering, because in some other architectures, out of context, but in places like Unit and all, we concatenate the encoder and decoder, right?
Sunny: No, I'm just saying we don't concatenate the position encoded vector and this embedding vector.
Sunny: Okay, if we are going to be concatenate that, so the vector length will become, like, 2Us, and that we cannot be processed for that if it is going to become 2Us, right? Say, we have 10,000 dimensional vector. Now, it will become 20,000 of dimension vector with a positional encoding.
Sunny: So we don't concatenate that. I'm just explaining that perspective, that's it, nothing else.
Sunny: don't we overthink over there, are we going to be congregated somewhere? What could be the pros and cons of that? No, nothing like that. Even in the research paper also, they haven't mentioned those such things, right?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Oh, gosh.
Sunny: So, I just explain you with that perspective, the positional coding and the embedding only, that's it.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Okay, yeah, makes sense. So, and generally, I'm asking, so in the future, when we go to RAG and all, are we going to, cover concepts like, RAG, including images, tables, and all, or is it mostly text-based?
Sunny: Maha, images or tables also. It's not a big deal to handle images, tables, and all. We can do that easily.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: That sounds great, and yeah, maybe in practical, we would be using cloud resources, right? And, could you say, maybe, like, after how many classes we…
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: would start using it, because I already used up my Google trial once, and my Amazon is also
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: active right now, so I'm just, wondering what if I… if the time's up, and…
Sunny: So, it will take at least one and a half months, right?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Okay.
Sunny: So, to cover, this transformer, tuning, API, the other concept. So, like, how much…
Sunny: 10 to 15 more classes, okay?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Okay, so, like, if at all, my current, thing is expired, could I just use another ID and be creating the account, and that should work fine, or will that.
Sunny: Yeah, see, cloud services are not, like, mandatory, okay? So we can do everything from the open source as well.
Sunny: So, yeah, if you have, then fine, you can practice right now also. You can check out my RAC playlist, you can check out the RAC lectures from the previous course also, we have given you the access. Okay, and you can practice on your own.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: don't wait for, because on my YouTube also, lots of content regarding the rag. You can practice easily, right?
Sunny: So, not be worried about that, and we are… I'm not focusing more on the cloud side,
Sunny: Regarding this RAG and all, right? Because, everyone is not having those services, but yeah, I'll more focus on the open source, basically.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Okay, yeah, yeah, Sunny, thanks a lot about confirming that. And a last thing, so you were mentioning about the, Walmart opportunity and stuff, right, yesterday? So, is it more, like, exclusively for people in the pro… in this, bootcamp, or is it just an open opportunity that…
Sunny: No, no, it is for our batch people only, so that's why we share this information, the batch. Otherwise, I can create a YouTube video also of that, right?
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that were my questions. Thank you so much for answering.
Sunny: Thank you, man. Bye.
Lakshmi Chathurya Chekuri: Thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, next out is, anyone, Tej, Rajesh?
Sunny: a soak is also there. Yes, you are done, but Shiva, do you have any doubt?
Sunny: You're still in the head? Yes.
Tej: Yeah, yeah, Sunny.
Tej: So, if you can please go to that,
Tej: PE, slide that you have.
Tej: And, you were… let's take the example of the word great that you have, right? And…
Tej: And, see, I'm trying to understand this formula that you have on the site, right, with assigned costs, payers that you've created.
Tej: I want to understand, in the context of the cost graph that you have, Right, so… is it…
Tej: By just taking the word one example, great.
Tej: ovala.
Tej: Are you happy, but explain because I take care of school?
Sunny: Yeah, actually, McGrath.
Sunny: Voice Core, Can you mute yourself?
Tej: Unmute.
Sunny: Yeah, the cool…
Tej: pumpkin, you…
Sunny: Grav Medical.
Tej: Oh, man.
Sunny: Yeah, please mute yourself.
Sunny: Okay, this is the graph.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Abhisme.
Sunny: This one is the… Sine 1, sine wave.
Tej: Yeah.
Sunny: And this is a cosine wave.
Sunny: Right? So what we are doing, basically, let's say we have worked great.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So what we are doing over here, we are going to be calculate a value, let's say we have this particular position.
Sunny: this particular position. So for this position, basically, we are calculating a value for the cause, And for the…
Sunny: Sign also, this both value.
Sunny: Getting my point.
Sunny: So let's say this is my word, great. So for this, we are calculating a sign value, and the cost value also. Joki?
Sunny: One position. Abhiam ko vector size match karna hai.
Sunny: Vector size match karne mat love. Jo Mare word to bakne jo amku model, johanate karke dia hai, vector size. Let's say, make example litaw. Let's say mere jo, model name us ne amko.
Sunny: 4K dia, size 10 red karkeh. Anna? To have size match karna hai, tom kese garage ko.
Sunny: tohap scientist ne bola, diko esa to hai, ye peripas pojisan hai. That's a great mirab position hai.
Sunny: Auskelya mein sine kiwi kar rahu cosine kiwi kar rahu. Mehrepas doh value hai. Toh uskelya rune formula dia, matla rune boha, kitti ke hai. Esa kaam karo, isk dh peer calculate kar low. Doh piar case, ek per calculate kya, sine cosine melga, dusra pier calculate kya, sine cosine milge usherko.
Sunny: vector se map kar pai value. Samjaya.
Sunny: my cable.
Sunny: karung map mein.
Tej: Like, that one potion ka matlab kao.
Sunny: Alright, one position aapka, actually.
Tej: toh…
Sunny: How are you?
Tej: So, basically, scamata bit.
Sunny: Right? Just sent 10 Samir, how are you?
Tej: Ha, Pura sent anything token here.
Sunny: kya hoga.
Tej: Pilot 1, first push, okay.
Sunny: Yeah, okay, zero position. 0 says kartutan position. Oga, ba tao.
Tej: One oga.
Sunny: One oga. It's kayuka kaoga.
Tej: Tu hoga.
Sunny: ye are hai.
Sunny: ye sign ka value. Hua?
Tej: So yeah, huh.
Sunny: 9 kaogia, or quas kahogiya.
Sunny: kioga batau.
Tej: diap neck.
Sunny: So, let's say ya mujay deitya. Abih mujay kya karnai is aka, pujishna encoding journey karna hain, joki isi same dimension ka ho.
Sunny: Someone's remake your ball wrong.
Tej: Y las partivan vena America.
Sunny: same dimension ka ho. Iska dimension ki hai, 4 dimension hai na?
Sunny: opposition, including Janet Karunga, before I mention kay Karunga na.
Tej: So, I'll be…
Tej: Word to vector aapne kojitna dimensions data hai, toh hum sign cost pair utne dimensions mein, PE formula use karke generate karte hain.
Sunny: Huh, correct. Matlam, ye mira ar hab isk.
Tej: Model.
Sunny: karna hain.
Tej: Hmm.
Tej: Bin.
Sunny: range nikalithe, no?
Sunny: So, ayreta, right? Aiga value.
Tej: 120123.
Sunny: child dimension ka vector, asa.
Tej: Let me double sign.
Sunny: What's the…
Tej: To be a very fundamental question, America, O XY.
Tej: We can call it as two-dimensional, right?
Sunny: Hmm.
Tej: Toh jab cha demand shojata.
Tej: It's like…
Sunny: map karne ka tribe mat karu. De ko… Actually, Mayor, rookie.
Sunny: ye joap heat map dekare, no ye.
Sunny: agar banay gatu istai ka grab banay, ada ko yeh po juice hai.
Sunny: 150 dimensional vector hai. Toh ye actually lime real essa graph banaga. Yeh aaph.
Tej: Multidameter graphic,
Sunny: multi-dimension graph nahi. 150 value, 010101, heat map, actually, mein. Okay, woh, ap wala multi-dimensional graph braini bao, tohap gala teach gala direction mein lejara. Ap masochoessa, ki…
Sunny: ye 4 dimension vector ko mein ispa map kar panga. No. 012345, usko sine cosma convert karenge, or ye jo vector ayga, wo formale se ayga. Usko is grafa map kern tray karne ka mad karwa.
Tej: na? Distance between…
Sunny: value kis range. That's it.
Sunny: 4 agarap mein se bolangik is 4-dimension vector ko, let's say merepa 3 dimension vector us ko map kar do XYZ12XY jet grab banana ki, ya ape.
Sunny: ye sign ko sign ka hai.
Tej: You're just representing a sine cosine value.
Sunny: That's it.
Tej: It leaners me, huh?
Tej: So, multi-dimension, we should not confuse with that, right? So, 4 dimension mein jabisk calculate karte hai, To…
Tej: meinay yara.
Tej: So…
Sunny: concept calculations engineer.
Tej: 4-dimension ka, The, output, right?
Tej: PE calculate kare. Toh formula samaj mein ahi kaise karate.
Tej: fundamental, yeah, I mean, imagination case, like…
Sunny: fundamental deki, aap I think Purane notes deki nahi, aap whole keh vi ni rakte hain, side mein.
Sunny: aapko bataaya na.
Sunny: Ki… ko ye not seh?
Sunny: aka.
Sunny: encore.com.
Sunny: Tokenization hua? Embedding layer sechea, even hua, Ojisan hua. Yeah, how are you ka? Abi y kahan se jarai.
Sunny: multi-head cell potential layers of JRI.
Sunny: self-attention kya karta hai. To self-attention aj mini start ki hai. Abihapan ye padding, ye samjing ki se kaam kar rah hai, right? Uske baat ye data same.
Sunny: vector operation, metrics operation, in networks aka matla botaya, uske lia aapka na throh fundamental strong una chi hai, a fundamental bullet toh, uskele aapko fata una chiye.
Sunny: Usmein training ka matla bota hai, usmeh prediction ka matla hota hai, usmeh vector operation, metrics operations ka hote hain. Agar aapke itini level ke fundamental clear, na, toh aapu yeh chis, definitely samadhai gi.
Sunny: Lekin, api problem ke ana, aap lo ke saath me a job start karai, aap logo ye cheech ka bhi padi nahi, pelibat, aap logo yech pada ne ha. Aapne keysa transformer utalia. Mathap joji sab seh topmost chijaya. Math lab, let's say humku agar class 1 to 10 tak jana hai, apne seeda 12th class ut hali hai, asa sa mage loaf.
Tej: It's a wrap around.
Sunny: missing hair, ye wala.
Sunny: connect hini hubat hain.
Tej: Exactly what you want.
Sunny: app aapne client ko. Amara manager to task desega je rape, maybe AP manager, api, like, apne project na rahapanwa hai
Sunny: application mana ketina. Yaha hai.
Sunny: Actually, when neural network ke se kaam kartata, CNN ke se kaam karte thee, RNN ke se kaam karte thee, apne first tenth class takne pada, see the 12th class ki padhai karne poj kai, au feravada uski preparation karna hai. Toh agar aap me ichi thori samajini hain, to me bolunga, prerequisite dekho.
Sunny: training, testing, aapke supervised learning, neural network, toh ye chi jaanput definitely summer jayigi. Got it?
Tej: Take it. That makes sense. But I think aapne will be clear karthya. Agar mein toda, request jaake neural networks, our supervisor Aning paloo, Shayid mein, we will be able to follow. Yeah? Perfect. Thank you.
Sunny: Correct. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Shiva: Hi, Sanisa.
Sunny: Just a second. Yes, Seva?
Shiva: Yeah, can you give me access to share the screen?
Shiva: I created the environment, okay?
Sunny: You can share the screen. Yeah, Rajesh, do you have any doubt? It's clear.
Rajesh: Yes, one doubt I have.
Rajesh: So, you said, like, we will do parallel…
Rajesh: thing to the transformer, right? All the tokens would be sent parallelly to the transformer architecture, correct?
Rajesh: So, my doubt here is, like, when we break them all into tokens, and then Word2Vec will do the even embedding.
Rajesh: And then we are doing the portional encoding, PE1.
Sunny: Right?
Rajesh: So, does the parallelism start After personal encoding, when it is going to the self-attention, or…
Rajesh: Is it for now.
Sunny: Parallelism start from the first, like, from the first stage itself. For the explanation only, I break down the thing, but whenever it will be processed through the PyTorch, or whenever we'll code it, everything will be the metrics operation, actually. That's it. I'll show you that metrics one, okay? Wait for one more class, I will show you that architecture, okay?
Rajesh: Oh, okay, sure, okay, thanks.
Shiva: Yes, sir. So… Sonny, sir, I got this error again. OAS error.
Shiva: migrated environment with, this ENV12, okay?
Shiva: And you can see the kernel as well.
Sunny: Show me the error.
Shiva: Yeah, this one.
Sunny: Open the terminal.
Sunny: Click on the three dots, three dots, the three dots is there. No, no, close this one. First close it.
Sunny: Click on the three dots.
Sunny: Close it, I'll close it.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: Click on the three dots, click on the terminal, new terminal.
Sunny: No, no, go again with that.
Sunny: Click on the three dots.
Sunny: Terminal, new terminal, first option, huh?
Shiva: Yay.
Sunny: Oh.
Sunny: Now, just CMD… open the CMD over here.
Sunny: Hmm. I activate the environment, it's 3.10.
Shiva: Yeah, I already activated this one as well.
Sunny: Activate over here.
Shiva: Yeah, once again.
Sunny: Yes. Not over, right over here, Python.
Sunny: Hit enter.
Sunny: Now, copy that command from Transcendence transformer, input transformer. Copy that command.
Sunny: Copy that import statement.
Shiva: Amazing.
Sunny: From transformer, input sentence transformer. Copy that import statement.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: Oh, paste it here.
Sunny: Oh, sorry.
Sunny: Yeah, paste it here.
Shiva: Yeah.
Sunny: Yeah, hit enter. Wait.
Sunny: initialization routine fail, error loading, D, Shiva, gen AI, frozen error, bootcamp, er.
Sunny: Oh, one more dependencies is there.
Sunny: Just wait.
Sunny: Scroll down.
Sunny: It is because of the version mismatching, I think you're getting it. Give me the access of your screen.
Sunny: See, don't create, any folder with this, space.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: Okay, it gives the issue like this.
Sunny: See, it is saying no, Jenny, I…
Sunny: We're just taking your part till here.
Shiva: Okay.
Shiva: Okay, chino.
Sunny: Wait, so…
Shiva: So…
Sunny: Just do one thing.
Sunny: Copy and paste this command on the terminal.
Shiva: This one?
Sunny: command I've given you, right? Just copy that and paste it.
Shiva: One sec.
Shiva: Oh, complete one.
Sunny: Yes, pasted.
Sunny: No, paste this command.
Shiva: Eve.
Shiva: Yo.
Sunny: Okay, now paste this command.
Sunny: Mr?
Sunny: write Python and paste… No, write Python and paste.
Sunny: Hit enter.
Sunny: No, no, no, Python, you hit enter.
Shiva: Okay.
Sunny: Have you learned Python?
Shiva: Yes, yes.
Sunny: That why you're not able to execute the basic command?
Sunny: Paste the command here.
Sunny: See, torch is not defined.
Sunny: Actually, your system is having some issue. The package and all everything got messed up.
Sunny: See, do one thing.
Sunny: First of all, don't keep this folder inside this spaced folder, okay? Create any new folder there.
Sunny: in another drive, basically, okay, with the proper name, and create a new virtual environment with Python 3.12 over there, okay? And install this require.txt, whatever I shared, over there, and check whether it is working or not. If it is not working, let me know, over the mail, okay, or in the committee chat.
Sunny: So I'll schedule one session for you, maybe in the weekdays.
Sunny: And, we'll check if it is not working, okay?
Shiva: Thank you so much. Sure, I will try it.
Sunny: Yeah, because I think this, I think this environment is corrupted, or your system, basically, we need to be installed in Microsoft C++, tool as well, okay, because this torch is required that. If it's not working in your system, it's fine, you can use the collab also, so I can guide you with respect to that. But first, do this one.
Sunny: Just create a fresh folder in any other drive, don't give a space and all or anything, and then install this recan.txt. Got it?
Shiva: Beautiful.
Sunny: And check it like this. Okay.
Shiva: Okay, Sunisa. Thank you.
Sunny: Thank you.
Yash Shukla: Yeah, send me some.
Sunny: Yeah, yes.
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir, one query I had, like, yesterday you discussed about, you know, transformer, decoder and encoder architecture. You told that LOD is transformer decoder architecture.
Yash Shukla: So, when I, studied about it, the GPT was also showing it was transformer decoder. But in one of the research papers in RJ, it showed that, the Claude models are both, you know, the transformer model.
Yash Shukla: So, why is there so ambiguity in this?
Sunny: Sorry, I didn't get…
Yash Shukla: Like, in GPT, when I searched about the cloud model, it showed that it is a purely decoder model, decoder transformer. But, in one of the research papers from RJ, which is the, you know, where we share all the papers, so in that one of the research papers, it says that, the Cloud was a purely transformer architecture. So.
Yash Shukla: Is there an ambiguity, or previous models were, purely transformer, and now it is coming decoder models?
Sunny: It is a decoder-only transformer model. Maybe they are saying it is a transformer mode model, that is fine, but it's a decoder-only transformer model. Okay.
Sunny: Just share that research paper with me, I'll check. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Okay.
Yash Shukla: And one more thing, sir, like, we know about transformers, that when we do reinforcement learning, the model gets better with every human feedback.
Yash Shukla: So, how does this reinforcement learning or the human feedback, affect the internal working of it? That means, I want to know, does it affect the self-attention, does it affect the positional encoding? How does it affect.
Sunny: No, that is a different part. Actually, that comes inside the third stage of the training, which is called the reinforcement learning through human feedback, okay? Inside that, what happens, basically, we prepare the data, and we train the model, right?
Sunny: We train the model, the same model. But whenever we are training those models, actually this, using the RLHF and all the classical RLHF, so it was a… basically, it was being applied on the entire attention.
Sunny: Okay, and the entire, feed-forward neural network only, the PPU algorithm. So, yes, it is changing the weight of the attention in the feed-forward neural network only, but nowadays, we have other concepts like LoRa and all. So, we are using DBO technique with LoRa.
Sunny: ORPO technique with LoRa, okay? So there, we are not changing the weight of this attention layer. Instead of that, we are creating one dummy weight parallelly, and those dummy weight is, like, training, and it is going to be concatenate with our earlier weight, the previous weight of the attention.
Sunny: So it is working like that.
Sunny: Got it?
Yash Shukla: So, all these concepts I will study in the LoRa coming sessions.
Sunny: Yes, it will come in a fine-tuning, okay?
Yash Shukla: And one more thing, like, you told about, I, first of all, you know, shared the research paper link.
Yash Shukla: And one more thing, in positional encoding, for example, in one sentence, we have four words, so there will be four tokens, starting from 0 to 3, as we are going through the indexes. So, when it comes about the next sentence, so the, position will continue from the third index, or it will again restart from 0.
Sunny: Zero.
Yash Shukla: So, sir, for two different sentences, the position and coding will be, same. For example, if you have two sentences with the same number of words.
Sunny: Yes, yes, yes. It would be same, actually.
Yash Shukla: So, how does, the first sentence will connect, or have the context, or the next sentence will have the context for the first sentence, if the values are, you know, fluctuating between the sign and the cause of conditional encoding? So, how can we explain this?
Sunny: What we can explain?
Yash Shukla: for example, two sentences of same words you have said, the position and coding, the indexing will be same, like 0 to 3 and 0 to 3. So, if the other sentence is, how we can…
Sunny: This positional encoding is just to tell the position.
Sunny: You know?
Sunny: let's say… Right? QA.
Yash Shukla: reduce it.
Sunny: A merikumed the slogay.
Sunny: no thus, right?
Sunny: Abi, mere baju me kur hai.
Yash Shukla: H.
Sunny: Okay? Toh ab meh, us kyu mekase number dunga, gera bara tira choda aseh dunga ke mein exchange start kar muma, ke ek dot tin char pa… eki se start karuma, ek dot tinchar ha na. Toh matlab, meripas doh kyu hai.
Sunny: tisera hai.
Sunny: Toh, wo seishan batani ke liye hai. A pelek you may be mo pela dusra tisraho, dusri kyu may be pela dusra tiseraho, chhotiku may be pela dusra tisrah wo hoga.
Sunny: Toh, wahi chee sum jo, pala sentence meh bho, pala dusra tisra bad hai, jotih dusare may be a thisere me hai, but to bus mein uske, position paklade, ki, bhai ele position, ye le terrah poison, ele tira position. Or her sentence may choose repeat hogi.
Sunny: Toh, uska training se ko leira dira nahi, what to meinasu pujition pakradiabas, ke bahi terab pojisan, asa.
Yash Shukla: koi respect ni ray.
Sunny: nahi hai.
Yash Shukla: Absolutely.
Sunny: It's up.
Yash Shukla: beacon.
Yash Shukla: peak.
Sunny: Oh.
Yash Shukla: Okay, sir, thank you very much.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, sir.
Sunny: Okay, guys, bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class. Thank you.